CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE

THE LOST DIADEM

eville — what the — how — ?”
But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione, and with yells of
delight was hugging them too. The longer Harry looked at Neville, the
worse he appeared: One of his eyes was swollen yellow and purple, there
were gouge marks on his face, and his general air of unkemptness suggested
that he had been living rough. Nevertheless, his battered visage shone with
happiness as he let go of Hermione and said again, “I knew you’d come!
Kept telling Seamus it was a matter of time!”

“Neville, what’s happened to you?”
“What? This?” Neville dismissed his injuries with a shake of the head.
“This is nothing. Seamus is worse. You’ll see. Shall we get going then?
Oh,” he turned to Aberforth, “Ab, there might be a couple more people on
the way.”

“Couple more?” repeated Aberforth ominously. “What d’you mean, a
couple more, Longbottom? There’s a curfew and a Caterwauling Charm on
the whole village!”

“I know, that’s why they’ll be Apparating directly into the bar,” said
Neville. “Just send them down the passage when they get here, will you?
Thanks a lot.”

Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her to climb up onto
the mantelpiece and into the tunnel; Ron followed, then Neville. Harry
addressed Aberforth.

“I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve saved our lives twice.”
“Look after ’em, then,” said Aberforth gruffly. “I might not be able to
save ’em a third time.”

Harry clambered up onto the mantelpiece and through the hole behind
Ariana’s portrait. There were smooth stone steps on the other side: It looked
as though the passageway had been there for years. Brass lamps hung from
the walls and the earthy floor was worn and smooth; as they walked, their
shadows rippled, fanlike, across the wall.

“How long’s this been here?” Ron asked as they set off. “It isn’t on the
Marauder’s Map, is it, Harry? I thought there were only seven passages in
and out of school?”

“They sealed off all of those before the start of the year,” said Neville.
“There’s no chance of getting through any of them now, not with curses
over the entrances and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at the exits.” 

He started walking backward, beaming, drinking them in. “Never mind that
stuff  .  .  . Is it true? Did you break into Gringotts? Did you escape on a
dragon? It’s everywhere, everyone’s talking about it, Terry Boot got beaten
up by Carrow for yelling about it in the Great Hall at dinner!”

“Yeah, it’s true,” said Harry.
Neville laughed gleefully.
“What did you do with the dragon?”
“Released it into the wild,” said Ron. “Hermione was all for keeping it as
a pet —”

“Don’t exaggerate, Ron —”
“But what have you been doing? People have been saying you’ve just
been on the run, Harry, but I don’t think so. I think you’ve been up to
something.”

“You’re right,” said Harry, “but tell us about Hogwarts, Neville, we
haven’t heard anything.”
“It’s been . . . well, it’s not really like Hogwarts anymore,” said Neville,
the smile fading from his face as he spoke. “Do you know about the
Carrows?”

“Those two Death Eaters who teach here?”
“They do more than teach,” said Neville. “They’re in charge of all
discipline. They like punishment, the Carrows.”
“Like Umbridge?”

“Nah, they make her look tame. The other teachers are all supposed to
refer us to the Carrows if we do anything wrong. They don’t, though, if they
can avoid it. You can tell they all hate them as much as we do.

“Amycus, the bloke, he teaches what used to be Defense Against the
Dark Arts, except now it’s just the Dark Arts. We’re supposed to practice
the Cruciatus Curse on people who’ve earned detentions —”
“What?”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s united voices echoed up and down the
passage.

“Yeah,” said Neville. “That’s how I got this one,” he pointed at a
particularly deep gash in his cheek, “I refused to do it. Some people are into
it, though; Crabbe and Goyle love it. First time they’ve ever been top in
anything, I expect.

“Alecto, Amycus’s sister, teaches Muggle Studies, which is compulsory
for everyone. We’ve all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like
animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drove wizards into hiding by being
vicious toward them, and how the natural order is being reestablished. I got
this one,” he indicated another slash to his face, “for asking her how much
Muggle blood she and her brother have got.”

“Blimey, Neville,” said Ron, “there’s a time and a place for getting a
smart mouth.”

“You didn’t hear her,” said Neville. “You wouldn’t have stood it either.
The thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives everyone hope.
I used to notice that when you did it, Harry.”

“But they’ve used you as a knife sharpener,” said Ron, wincing slightly
as they passed a lamp and Neville’s injuries were thrown into even greater
relief.
Neville shrugged.

“Doesn’t matter. They don’t want to spill too much pure blood, so they’ll
torture us a bit if we’re mouthy but they won’t actually kill us.”
Harry did not know what was worse, the things that Neville was saying
or the matter-of-fact tone in which he said them.

“The only people in real danger are the ones whose friends and relatives
on the outside are giving trouble. They get taken hostage. Old Xeno
Lovegood was getting a bit too outspoken in The Quibbler, so they dragged
Luna off the train on the way back for Christmas.”

“Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her —”
“Yeah, I know, she managed to get a message to me.”
From his pocket he pulled a golden coin, and Harry recognized it as one
of the fake Galleons that Dumbledore’s Army had used to send one another
messages.

“These have been great,” said Neville, beaming at Hermione. “The
Carrows never rumbled how we were communicating, it drove them mad.
We used to sneak out at night and put graffiti on the walls: Dumbledore’s
Army, Still Recruiting, stuff like that. Snape hated it.”
“You used to?” said Harry, who had noticed the past tense.

“Well, it got more difficult as time went on,” said Neville. “We lost Luna
at Christmas, and Ginny never came back after Easter, and the three of us
were sort of the leaders. The Carrows seemed to know I was behind a lot of
it, so they started coming down on me hard, and then Michael Corner went
and got caught releasing a first-year they’d chained up, and they tortured
him pretty badly. That scared people off.”

“No kidding,” muttered Ron, as the passage began to slope upward.
“Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask people to go through what Michael did, so we
dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fighting, doing
underground stuff, right up until a couple of weeks ago. That’s when they
decided there was only one way to stop me, I suppose, and they went for
Gran.”

“They what?” said Harry, Ron, and Hermione together.
“Yeah,” said Neville, panting a little now, because the passage was
climbing so steeply, “well, you can see their thinking. It had worked really
well, kidnapping kids to force their relatives to behave, I s’pose it was only
a matter of time before they did it the other way around. Thing was,” he
faced them, and Harry was astonished to see that he was grinning, “they bit
off a bit more than they could chew with Gran. Little old witch living alone,
they probably thought they didn’t need to send anyone particularly
powerful. 

Anyway,” Neville laughed, “Dawlish is still in St. Mungo’s and
Gran’s on the run. She sent me a letter,” he clapped a hand to the breast
pocket of his robes, “telling me she was proud of me, that I’m my parents’
son, and to keep it up.”
“Cool,” said Ron.

“Yeah,” said Neville happily. “Only thing was, once they realized they
had no hold over me, they decided Hogwarts could do without me after all.
I don’t know whether they were planning to kill me or send me to Azkaban;
either way, I knew it was time to disappear.”
“But,” said Ron, looking thoroughly confused, “aren’t — aren’t we
heading straight back into Hogwarts?”

“’Course,” said Neville. “You’ll see. We’re here.”
They turned a corner and there ahead of them was the end of the passage.
Another short flight of steps led to a door just like the one hidden behind
Ariana’s portrait. Neville pushed it open and climbed through. As Harry
followed, he heard Neville call out to unseen people:
“Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?”

As Harry emerged into the room beyond the passage, there were several
screams and yells: “HARRY!” “It’s Potter, it’s POTTER!” “Ron!”
“Hermione!”

He had a confused impression of colored hangings, of lamps and many
faces. The next moment, he, Ron, and Hermione were engulfed, hugged,
pounded on the back, their hair ruffled, their hands shaken, by what seemed
to be more than twenty people: They might just have won a Quidditch final.

“Okay, okay, calm down!” Neville called, and as the crowd backed away,
Harry was able to take in their surroundings.

He did not recognize the room at all. It was enormous, and looked rather
like the interior of a particularly sumptuous tree house, or perhaps a
gigantic ship’s cabin. Multicolored hammocks were strung from the ceiling
and from a balcony that ran around the dark wood-paneled and windowless
walls, which were covered in bright tapestry hangings: Harry saw the gold
Gryffindor lion, emblazoned on scarlet; the black badger of Hufflepuff, set
against yellow; and the bronze eagle of Ravenclaw, on blue. The silver and
green of Slytherin alone were absent. There were bulging bookcases, a few
broomsticks propped against the walls, and in the corner, a large woodencased wireless.

“Where are we?”
“Room of Requirement, of course!” said Neville. “Surpassed itself,
hasn’t it? The Carrows were chasing me, and I knew I had just one chance
for a hideout: I managed to get through the door and this is what I found!
Well, it wasn’t exactly like this when I arrived, it was a load smaller, there
was only one hammock and just Gryffindor hangings. But it’s expanded as
more and more of the D.A. have arrived.”
“And the Carrows can’t get in?” asked Harry, looking around for the
door.

“No,” said Seamus Finnigan, whom Harry had not recognized until he
spoke: Seamus’s face was bruised and puffy. “It’s a proper hideout, as long
as one of us stays in here, they can’t get at us, the door won’t open. It’s all
down to Neville. He really gets this room. You’ve got to ask it for exactly
what you need — like, ‘I don’t want any Carrow supporters to be able to get
in’ — and it’ll do it for you! You’ve just got to make sure you close the
loopholes! Neville’s the man!”

“It’s quite straightforward, really,” said Neville modestly. “I’d been in
here about a day and a half, and getting really hungry, and wishing I could
get something to eat, and that’s when the passage to the Hog’s Head opened
up. I went through it and met Aberforth. He’s been providing us with food,
because for some reason, that’s the one thing the room doesn’t really do.”
“Yeah, well, food’s one of the five exceptions to Gamp’s Law of
Elemental Transfiguration,” said Ron to general astonishment.

“So we’ve been hiding out here for nearly two weeks,” said Seamus,
“and it just makes more hammocks every time we need them, and it even
sprouted a pretty good bathroom once girls started turning up —”
“— and thought they’d quite like to wash, yes,” supplied Lavender
Brown, whom Harry had not noticed until that point. Now that he looked
around properly, he recognized many familiar faces. Both Patil twins were
there, as were Terry Boot, Ernie Macmillan, Anthony Goldstein, and
Michael Corner.

“Tell us what you’ve been up to, though,” said Ernie. “There’ve been so
many rumors, we’ve been trying to keep up with you on Potterwatch.” He
pointed at the wireless. “You didn’t break into Gringotts?”
“They did!” said Neville. “And the dragon’s true too!”
There was a smattering of applause and a few whoops; Ron took a bow.
“What were you after?” asked Seamus eagerly.

Before any of them could parry the question with one of their own, Harry
felt a terrible, scorching pain in the lightning scar. As he turned his back
hastily on the curious and delighted faces, the Room of Requirement
vanished, and he was standing inside a ruined stone shack, and the rotting
floorboards were ripped apart at his feet, a disinterred golden box lay open
and empty beside the hole, and Voldemort’s scream of fury vibrated inside
his head.

With an enormous effort he pulled out of Voldemort’s mind again, back
to where he stood, swaying, in the Room of Requirement, sweat pouring
from his face and Ron holding him up.

“Are you all right, Harry?” Neville was saying. “Want to sit down? I
expect you’re tired, aren’t — ?”
“No,” said Harry. He looked at Ron and Hermione, trying to tell them
without words that Voldemort had just discovered the loss of one of the
other Horcruxes. Time was running out fast: If Voldemort chose to visit
Hogwarts next, they would miss their chance.
“We need to get going,” he said, and their expressions told him that they
understood.

“What are we going to do, then, Harry?” asked Seamus. “What’s the
plan?”
“Plan?” repeated Harry. He was exercising all his willpower to prevent
himself succumbing again to Voldemort’s rage: His scar was still burning.
“Well, there’s something we — Ron, Hermione, and I — need to do, and
then we’ll get out of here.”
Nobody was laughing or whooping anymore. Neville looked confused.
“What d’you mean, ‘get out of here’?”
“We haven’t come back to stay,” said Harry, rubbing his scar, trying to
soothe the pain. “There’s something important we need to do —”
“What is it?”

“I — I can’t tell you.”
There was a ripple of muttering at this: Neville’s brows contracted.
“Why can’t you tell us? It’s something to do with fighting You-KnowWho, right?”
“Well, yeah —”
“Then we’ll help you.”

The other members of Dumbledore’s Army were nodding, some
enthusiastically, others solemnly. A couple of them rose from their chairs to
demonstrate their willingness for immediate action.
“You don’t understand.” Harry seemed to have said that a lot in the last
few hours. “We — we can’t tell you. We’ve got to do it — alone.”
“Why?” asked Neville.

“Because . . .” In his desperation to start looking for the missing Horcrux,
or at least to have a private discussion with Ron and Hermione about where
they might commence their search, Harry found it difficult to gather his
thoughts. His scar was still searing. “Dumbledore left the three of us a job,”
he said carefully, “and we weren’t supposed to tell — I mean, he wanted us
to do it, just the three of us.”
“We’re his army,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s Army. We were all in it
together, we’ve been keeping it going while you three have been off on
your own —”

“It hasn’t exactly been a picnic, mate,” said Ron.
“I never said it had, but I don’t see why you can’t trust us. Everyone in
this room’s been fighting and they’ve been driven in here because the
Carrows were hunting them down. Everyone in here’s proven they’re loyal
to Dumbledore — loyal to you.”

“Look,” Harry began, without knowing what he was going to say, but it
did not matter: The tunnel door had just opened behind him.
“We got your message, Neville! Hello you three, I thought you must be
here!”

It was Luna and Dean. Seamus gave a great roar of delight and ran to hug
his best friend.
“Hi, everyone!” said Luna happily. “Oh, it’s great to be back!”
“Luna,” said Harry distractedly, “what are you doing here? How did you
— ?”

“I sent for her,” said Neville, holding up the fake Galleon. “I promised
her and Ginny that if you turned up I’d let them know. We all thought that if
you came back, it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow
Snape and the Carrows.”

“Of course that’s what it means,” said Luna brightly. “Isn’t it, Harry?
We’re going to fight them out of Hogwarts?”
“Listen,” said Harry with a rising sense of panic, “I’m sorry, but that’s
not what we came back for. There’s something we’ve got to do, and then
—”

“You’re going to leave us in this mess?” demanded Michael Corner.
“No!” said Ron. “What we’re doing will benefit everyone in the end, it’s
all about trying to get rid of You-Know-Who —”

“Then let us help!” said Neville angrily. “We want to be a part of it!”
There was another noise behind them, and Harry turned. His heart
seemed to fail: Ginny was now climbing through the hole in the wall,
closely followed by Fred, George, and Lee Jordan. Ginny gave Harry a
radiant smile: He had forgotten, or had never fully appreciated, how
beautiful she was, but he had never been less pleased to see her.

“Aberforth’s getting a bit annoyed,” said Fred, raising his hand in answer
to several cries of greeting. “He wants a kip, and his bar’s turned into a
railway station.”

Harry’s mouth fell open. Right behind Lee Jordan came Harry’s old
girlfriend, Cho Chang. She smiled at him.

“I got the message,” she said, holding up her own fake Galleon, and she
walked over to sit beside Michael Corner.
“So what’s the plan, Harry?” said George.

“There isn’t one,” said Harry, still disoriented by the sudden appearance
of all these people, unable to take everything in while his scar was still
burning so fiercely.

“Just going to make it up as we go along, are we? My favorite kind,” said
Fred.
“You’ve got to stop this!” Harry told Neville. “What did you call them all
back for? This is insane —”
“We’re fighting, aren’t we?” said Dean, taking out his fake Galleon. “The
message said Harry was back, and we were going to fight! I’ll have to get a
wand, though —”
“You haven’t got a wand — ?” began Seamus.
Ron turned suddenly to Harry.
“Why can’t they help?”
“What?”
“They can help.” He dropped his voice and said, so that none of them
could hear but Hermione, who stood between them, “We don’t know where
it is. We’ve got to find it fast. We don’t have to tell them it’s a Horcrux.”
Harry looked from Ron to Hermione, who murmured, “I think Ron’s
right. We don’t even know what we’re looking for, we need them.” And
when Harry looked unconvinced, “You don’t have to do everything alone,
Harry.”

Harry thought fast, his scar still prickling, his head threatening to split
again. Dumbledore had warned him against telling anyone but Ron and
Hermione about the Horcruxes. Secrets and lies, that’s how we grew up, and
Albus . . . he was a natural. . . . Was he turning into Dumbledore, keeping
his secrets clutched to his chest, afraid to trust? But Dumbledore had trusted
Snape, and where had that led? To murder at the top of the highest
tower . . .

“All right,” he said quietly to the other two. “Okay,” he called to the
room at large, and all noise ceased: Fred and George, who had been
cracking jokes for the benefit of those nearest, fell silent, and all of them
looked alert, excited.

“There’s something we need to find,” Harry said. “Something —
something that’ll help us overthrow You-Know-Who. It’s here at Hogwarts,
but we don’t know where. It might have belonged to Ravenclaw. Has
anyone heard of an object like that? Has anyone ever come across
something with her eagle on it, for instance?”
He looked hopefully toward the little group of Ravenclaws, to Padma,
Michael, Terry, and Cho, but it was Luna who answered, perched on the
arm of Ginny’s chair.

“Well, there’s her lost diadem. I told you about it, remember, Harry? The
lost diadem of Ravenclaw? Daddy’s trying to duplicate it.”
“Yeah, but the lost diadem,” said Michael Corner, rolling his eyes, “is
lost, Luna. That’s sort of the point.”
“When was it lost?” asked Harry.
“Centuries ago, they say,” said Cho, and Harry’s heart sank. “Professor
Flitwick says the diadem vanished with Ravenclaw herself. People have
looked, but,” she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws, “nobody’s ever found
a trace of it, have they?”
They all shook their heads.

“Sorry, but what is a diadem?” asked Ron.
“It’s a kind of crown,” said Terry Boot. “Ravenclaw’s was supposed to
have magical properties, enhance the wisdom of the wearer.”
“Yes, Daddy’s Wrackspurt siphons —”
But Harry cut across Luna.

“And none of you have ever seen anything that looks like it?”
They all shook their heads again. Harry looked at Ron and Hermione and
his own disappointment was mirrored back at him. An object that had been
lost this long, and apparently without trace, did not seem like a good
candidate for the Horcrux hidden in the castle.  .  .  . Before he could
formulate a new question, however, Cho spoke again.
“If you’d like to see what the diadem’s supposed to look like, I could take
you up to our common room and show you, Harry? Ravenclaw’s wearing it
in her statue.”

Harry’s scar scorched again: For a moment the Room of Requirement
swam before him, and he saw instead the dark earth soaring beneath him
and felt the great snake wrapped around his shoulders. Voldemort was
flying again, whether to the underground lake or here, to the castle, he did
not know: Either way, there was hardly any time left.
“He’s on the move,” he said quietly to Ron and Hermione. He glanced at
Cho and then back at them. “Listen, I know it’s not much of a lead, but I’m
going to go and look at this statue, at least find out what the diadem looks
like. Wait for me here and keep, you know — the other one — safe.”
Cho had got to her feet, but Ginny said rather fiercely, “No, Luna will
take Harry, won’t you, Luna?”
“Oooh, yes, I’d like to,” said Luna happily, and Cho sat down again,
looking disappointed.

“How do we get out?” Harry asked Neville.
“Over here.”
He led Harry and Luna to a corner, where a small cupboard opened onto
a steep staircase.

“It comes out somewhere different every day, so they’ve never been able
to find it,” he said. “Only trouble is, we never know exactly where we’re
going to end up when we go out. Be careful, Harry, they’re always
patrolling the corridors at night.”

“No problem,” said Harry. “See you in a bit.”
He and Luna hurried up the staircase, which was long, lit by torches, and
turned corners in unexpected places. At last they reached what appeared to
be solid wall.

“Get under here,” Harry told Luna, pulling out the Invisibility Cloak and
throwing it over both of them. He gave the wall a little push.
It melted away at his touch and they slipped outside: Harry glanced back
and saw that it had resealed itself at once. They were standing in a dark
corridor: Harry pulled Luna back into the shadows, fumbled in the pouch
around his neck, and took out the Marauder’s Map. Holding it close to his
nose he searched, and located his and Luna’s dots at last.
“We’re up on the fifth floor,” he whispered, watching Filch moving away
from them, a corridor ahead. “Come on, this way.”
They crept off.

Harry had prowled the castle at night many times before, but never had
his heart hammered this fast, never had so much depended on his safe
passage through the place. Through squares of moonlight upon the floor,
past suits of armor whose helmets creaked at the sound of their soft
footsteps, around corners beyond which who knew what lurked, Harry and
Luna walked, checking the Marauder’s Map whenever light permitted,
twice pausing to allow a ghost to pass without drawing attention to
themselves. He expected to encounter an obstacle at any moment; his worst
fear was Peeves, and he strained his ears with every step to hear the first,
telltale signs of the poltergeist’s approach.

“This way, Harry,” breathed Luna, plucking his sleeve and pulling him
toward a spiral staircase.
They climbed in tight, dizzying circles; Harry had never been up here
before. At last they reached a door. There was no handle and no keyhole:
nothing but a plain expanse of aged wood, and a bronze knocker in the
shape of an eagle.

Luna reached out a pale hand, which looked eerie floating in midair,
unconnected to arm or body. She knocked once, and in the silence it
sounded to Harry like a cannon blast. At once the beak of the eagle opened,
but instead of a bird’s call, a soft, musical voice said, “Which came first, the
phoenix or the flame?”

“Hmm . . . What do you think, Harry?” said Luna, looking thoughtful.
“What? Isn’t there just a password?”
“Oh no, you’ve got to answer a question,” said Luna.
“What if you get it wrong?”
“Well, you have to wait for somebody who gets it right,” said Luna.
“That way you learn, you see?”
“Yeah  .  .  . Trouble is, we can’t really afford to wait for anyone else,
Luna.”

“No, I see what you mean,” said Luna seriously. “Well then, I think the
answer is that a circle has no beginning.”
“Well reasoned,” said the voice, and the door swung open.
The deserted Ravenclaw common room was a wide, circular room, airier
than any Harry had ever seen at Hogwarts. Graceful arched windows
punctuated the walls, which were hung with blue-and-bronze silks: By day,
the Ravenclaws would have a spectacular view of the surrounding
mountains. The ceiling was domed and painted with stars, which were
echoed in the midnight-blue carpet. There were tables, chairs, and
bookcases, and in a niche opposite the door stood a tall statue of white
marble.

Harry recognized Rowena Ravenclaw from the bust he had seen at
Luna’s house. The statue stood beside a door that led, he guessed, to
dormitories above. He strode right up to the marble woman, and she seemed
to look back at him with a quizzical half smile on her face, beautiful yet
slightly intimidating. A delicate-looking circlet had been reproduced in
marble on top of her head. It was not unlike the tiara Fleur had worn at her
wedding. There were tiny words etched into it. Harry stepped out from
under the Cloak and climbed up onto Ravenclaw’s plinth to read them.

“‘Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure.’”
“Which makes you pretty skint, witless,” said a cackling voice.
Harry whirled around, slipped off the plinth, and landed on the floor. The
sloping-shouldered figure of Alecto Carrow was standing before him, and
even as Harry raised his wand, she pressed a stubby forefinger to the skull
and snake branded on her forearm.


CHAPTER THIRTY

THE SACKING OF SEVERUS SNAPE

he moment her finger touched the Mark, Harry’s scar burned
savagely, the starry room vanished from sight, and he was standing
upon an outcrop of rock beneath a cliff, and the sea was washing around
him and there was triumph in his heart — They have the boy.
A loud bang brought Harry back to where he stood: Disoriented, he
raised his wand, but the witch before him was already falling forward; she
hit the ground so hard that the glass in the bookcases tinkled.

“I’ve never Stunned anyone except in our D.A. lessons,” said Luna,
sounding mildly interested. “That was noisier than I thought it would be.”
And sure enough, the ceiling had begun to tremble. Scurrying, echoing
footsteps were growing louder from behind the door leading to the
dormitories: Luna’s spell had woken Ravenclaws sleeping above.

“Luna, where are you? I need to get under the Cloak!”
Luna’s feet appeared out of nowhere; he hurried to her side and she let
the Cloak fall back over them as the door opened and a stream of
Ravenclaws, all in their nightclothes, flooded into the common room. There
were gasps and cries of surprise as they saw Alecto lying there unconscious.
Slowly they shuffled in around her, a savage beast that might wake at any
moment and attack them. Then one brave little first-year darted up to her
and prodded her backside with his big toe.

“I think she might be dead!” he shouted with delight.
“Oh, look,” whispered Luna happily, as the Ravenclaws crowded in
around Alecto. “They’re pleased!”
“Yeah . . . great . . .”

Harry closed his eyes, and as his scar throbbed he chose to sink again
into Voldemort’s mind . . . He was moving along the tunnel into the first
cave . . . He had chosen to make sure of the locket before coming . . . but
that would not take him long. . . .

There was a rap on the common room door and every Ravenclaw froze.
From the other side, Harry heard the soft, musical voice that issued from the
eagle door knocker: “Where do Vanished objects go?”
“I dunno, do I? Shut it!” snarled an uncouth voice that Harry knew was
that of the Carrow brother, Amycus. “Alecto? Alecto? Are you there? Have
you got him? Open the door!”

The Ravenclaws were whispering amongst themselves, terrified. Then,
without warning, there came a series of loud bangs, as though somebody
was firing a gun into the door.

“ALECTO! If he comes, and we haven’t got Potter — d’you want to go
the same way as the Malfoys? ANSWER ME!” Amycus bellowed, shaking
the door for all he was worth, but still it did not open. The Ravenclaws were
all backing away, and some of the most frightened began scampering back
up the staircase to their beds. Then, just as Harry was wondering whether he
ought not to blast open the door and Stun Amycus before the Death Eater
could do anything else, a second, most familiar voice rang out beyond the
door.

“May I ask what you are doing, Professor Carrow?”
“Trying — to get — through this damned — door!” shouted Amycus.
“Go and get Flitwick! Get him to open it, now!”
“But isn’t your sister in there?” asked Professor McGonagall. “Didn’t
Professor Flitwick let her in earlier this evening, at your urgent request?
Perhaps she could open the door for you? Then you needn’t wake up half
the castle.”
“She ain’t answering, you old besom! You open it! Garn! Do it, now!”
“Certainly, if you wish it,” said Professor McGonagall, with awful
coldness. There was a genteel tap of the knocker and the musical voice
asked again,
“Where do Vanished objects go?”
“Into nonbeing, which is to say, everything,” replied Professor
McGonagall.

“Nicely phrased,” replied the eagle door knocker, and the door swung
open.
The few Ravenclaws who had remained behind sprinted for the stairs as
Amycus burst over the threshold, brandishing his wand. Hunched like his
sister, he had a pallid, doughy face and tiny eyes, which fell at once on
Alecto, sprawled motionless on the floor. He let out a yell of fury and fear.

“What’ve they done, the little whelps?” he screamed. “I’ll Cruciate the
lot of ’em till they tell me who did it — and what’s the Dark Lord going to
say?” he shrieked, standing over his sister and smacking himself on the
forehead with his fist. “We haven’t got him, and they’ve gorn and killed
her!”

“She’s only Stunned,” said Professor McGonagall impatiently, who had
stooped down to examine Alecto. “She’ll be perfectly all right.”
“No she bludgering well won’t!” bellowed Amycus. “Not after the Dark
Lord gets hold of her! She’s gorn and sent for him, I felt me Mark burn, and
he thinks we’ve got Potter!”

“‘Got Potter’?” said Professor McGonagall sharply. “What do you mean,
‘got Potter’?”
“He told us Potter might try and get inside Ravenclaw Tower, and to send
for him if we caught him!”
“Why would Harry Potter try to get inside Ravenclaw Tower? Potter
belongs in my House!”

Beneath the disbelief and anger, Harry heard a little strain of pride in her
voice, and affection for Minerva McGonagall gushed up inside him.
“We was told he might come in here!” said Carrow. “I dunno why, do I?”
Professor McGonagall stood up and her beady eyes swept the room.
Twice they passed right over the place where Harry and Luna stood.

“We can push it off on the kids,” said Amycus, his piglike face suddenly
crafty. “Yeah, that’s what we’ll do. We’ll say Alecto was ambushed by the
kids, them kids up there” — he looked up at the starry ceiling toward the
dormitories — “and we’ll say they forced her to press her Mark, and that’s
why he got a false alarm. . . . He can punish them. Couple of kids more or
less, what’s the difference?”

“Only the difference between truth and lies, courage and cowardice,” said
Professor McGonagall, who had turned pale, “a difference, in short, which
you and your sister seem unable to appreciate. But let me make one thing
very clear. You are not going to pass off your many ineptitudes on the
students of Hogwarts. I shall not permit it.”
“Excuse me?”

Amycus moved forward until he was offensively close to Professor
McGonagall, his face within inches of hers. She refused to back away, but
looked down at him as if he were something disgusting she had found stuck
to a lavatory seat.

“It’s not a case of what you’ll permit, Minerva McGonagall. Your time’s
over. It’s us what’s in charge here now, and you’ll back me up or you’ll pay
the price.”
And he spat in her face.
Harry pulled the Cloak off himself, raised his wand, and said, “You
shouldn’t have done that.”

As Amycus spun around, Harry shouted, “Crucio!”
The Death Eater was lifted off his feet. He writhed through the air like a
drowning man, thrashing and howling in pain, and then, with a crunch and a
shattering of glass, he smashed into the front of a bookcase and crumpled,
insensible, to the floor.

“I see what Bellatrix meant,” said Harry, the blood thundering through
his brain, “you need to really mean it.”
“Potter!” whispered Professor McGonagall, clutching her heart. “Potter
— you’re here! What — ? How — ?” She struggled to pull herself together.
“Potter, that was foolish!”
“He spat at you,” said Harry.
“Potter, I — that was very — very gallant of you — but don’t you realize
— ?”
“Yeah, I do,” Harry assured her. Somehow her panic steadied him.
“Professor McGonagall, Voldemort’s on the way.”
“Oh, are we allowed to say the name now?” asked Luna with an air of
interest, pulling off the Invisibility Cloak. This appearance of a second
outlaw seemed to overwhelm Professor McGonagall, who staggered
backward and fell into a nearby chair, clutching at the neck of her old tartan
dressing gown.

“I don’t think it makes any difference what we call him,” Harry told
Luna. “He already knows where I am.”
In a distant part of Harry’s brain, that part connected to the angry,
burning scar, he could see Voldemort sailing fast over the dark lake in the
ghostly green boat. . . . He had nearly reached the island where the stone
basin stood. . . .

“You must flee,” whispered Professor McGonagall. “Now, Potter, as
quickly as you can!”
“I can’t,” said Harry. “There’s something I need to do. Professor, do you
know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?”
“The d-diadem of Ravenclaw? Of course not — hasn’t it been lost for
centuries?” She sat up a little straighter. “Potter, it was madness, utter
madness, for you to enter this castle —”
“I had to,” said Harry. “Professor, there’s something hidden here that I’m
supposed to find, and it could be the diadem — if I could just speak to
Professor Flitwick —”

There was a sound of movement, of clinking glass: Amycus was coming
round. Before Harry or Luna could act, Professor McGonagall rose to her
feet, pointed her wand at the groggy Death Eater, and said, “Imperio.”
Amycus got up, walked over to his sister, picked up her wand, then
shuffled obediently to Professor McGonagall and handed it over along with
his own. Then he lay down on the floor beside Alecto. Professor
McGonagall waved her wand again, and a length of shimmering silver rope
appeared out of thin air and snaked around the Carrows, binding them
tightly together.

“Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, turning to face him again with
superb indifference to the Carrows’ predicament, “if He-Who-Must-NotBe-Named does indeed know that you are here —”
As she said it, a wrath that was like physical pain blazed through Harry,
setting his scar on fire, and for a second he looked down upon a basin
whose potion had turned clear, and saw that no golden locket lay safe
beneath the surface —
“Potter, are you all right?” said a voice, and Harry came back: He was
clutching Luna’s shoulder to steady himself.

“Time’s running out, Voldemort’s getting nearer. Professor, I’m acting on
Dumbledore’s orders, I must find what he wanted me to find! But we’ve got
to get the students out while I’m searching the castle — it’s me Voldemort
wants, but he won’t care about killing a few more or less, not now —” not
now he knows I’m attacking Horcruxes, Harry finished the sentence in his
head.

“You’re acting on Dumbledore’s orders?” she repeated with a look of
dawning wonder. Then she drew herself up to her fullest height.
“We shall secure the school against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named while
you search for this — this object.”
“Is that possible?”

“I think so,” said Professor McGonagall dryly, “we teachers are rather
good at magic, you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a
while if we all put our best efforts into it. Of course, something will have to
be done about Professor Snape —”
“Let me —”

“— and if Hogwarts is about to enter a state of siege, with the Dark Lord
at the gates, it would indeed be advisable to take as many innocent people
out of the way as possible. With the Floo Network under observation, and
Apparition impossible within the grounds —”
“There’s a way,” said Harry quickly, and he explained about the
passageway leading into the Hog’s Head.

“Potter, we’re talking about hundreds of students —”
“I know, Professor, but if Voldemort and the Death Eaters are
concentrating on the school boundaries they won’t be interested in anyone
who’s Disapparating out of the Hog’s Head.”

“There’s something in that,” she agreed. She pointed her wand at the
Carrows, and a silver net fell upon their bound bodies, tied itself around
them, and hoisted them into the air, where they dangled beneath the blueand-gold ceiling like two large, ugly sea creatures. “Come. We must alert
the other Heads of House. You’d better put that Cloak back on.”
She marched toward the door, and as she did so she raised her wand.
From the tip burst three silver cats with spectacle markings around their
eyes. The Patronuses ran sleekly ahead, filling the spiral staircase with
silvery light, as Professor McGonagall, Harry, and Luna hurried back down.
Along the corridors they raced, and one by one the Patronuses left them;
Professor McGonagall’s tartan dressing gown rustled over the floor, and
Harry and Luna jogged behind her under the Cloak.

They had descended two more floors when another set of quiet footsteps
joined theirs. Harry, whose scar was still prickling, heard them first: He felt
in the pouch around his neck for the Marauder’s Map, but before he could
take it out, McGonagall too seemed to become aware of their company. She
halted, raised her wand ready to duel, and said, “Who’s there?”
“It is I,” said a low voice.

From behind a suit of armor stepped Severus Snape.
Hatred boiled up in Harry at the sight of him: He had forgotten the details
of Snape’s appearance in the magnitude of his crimes, forgotten how his
greasy black hair hung in curtains around his thin face, how his black eyes
had a dead, cold look. He was not wearing nightclothes, but was dressed in
his usual black cloak, and he too was holding his wand ready for a fight.
“Where are the Carrows?” he asked quietly.
“Wherever you told them to be, I expect, Severus,” said Professor
McGonagall.

Snape stepped nearer, and his eyes flitted over Professor McGonagall
into the air around her, as if he knew that Harry was there. Harry held his
wand up too, ready to attack.
“I was under the impression,” said Snape, “that Alecto had apprehended
an intruder.”
“Really?” said Professor McGonagall. “And what gave you that
impression?”

Snape made a slight flexing movement of his left arm, where the Dark
Mark was branded into his skin.
“Oh, but naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “You Death Eaters have
your own private means of communication, I forgot.”
Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were still probing the air
all about her, and he was moving gradually closer, with an air of hardly
noticing what he was doing.

“I did not know that it was your night to patrol the corridors, Minerva.”
“You have some objection?”
“I wonder what could have brought you out of your bed at this late
hour?”
“I thought I heard a disturbance,” said Professor McGonagall.
“Really? But all seems calm.”
Snape looked into her eyes.
“Have you seen Harry Potter, Minerva? Because if you have, I must
insist —”

Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could have believed: Her
wand slashed through the air and for a split second Harry thought that
Snape must crumple, unconscious, but the swiftness of his Shield Charm
was such that McGonagall was thrown off balance. She brandished her
wand at a torch on the wall and it flew out of its bracket: Harry, about to
curse Snape, was forced to pull Luna out of the way of the descending
flames, which became a ring of fire that filled the corridor and flew like a
lasso at Snape —
Then it was no longer fire, but a great black serpent that McGonagall
blasted to smoke, which re-formed and solidified in seconds to become a
swarm of pursuing daggers: Snape avoided them only by forcing the suit of
armor in front of him, and with echoing clangs the daggers sank, one after
another, into its breast —
“Minerva!” said a squeaky voice, and looking behind him, still shielding
Luna from flying spells, Harry saw Professors Flitwick and Sprout sprinting
up the corridor toward them in their nightclothes, with the enormous
Professor Slughorn panting along at the rear.
“No!” squealed Flitwick, raising his wand. “You’ll do no more murder at
Hogwarts!”

Flitwick’s spell hit the suit of armor behind which Snape had taken
shelter: With a clatter it came to life. Snape struggled free of the crushing
arms and sent it flying back toward his attackers: Harry and Luna had to
dive sideways to avoid it as it smashed into the wall and shattered. When
Harry looked up again, Snape was in full flight, McGonagall, Flitwick, and
Sprout all thundering after him: He hurtled through a classroom door and,
moments later, he heard McGonagall cry, “Coward! COWARD!”
“What’s happened, what’s happened?” asked Luna.
Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the corridor, trailing
the Invisibility Cloak behind them, into the deserted classroom where
Professors McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout were standing at a smashed
window.

“He jumped,” said Professor McGonagall as Harry and Luna ran into the
room.
“You mean he’s dead?” Harry sprinted to the window, ignoring Flitwick’s
and Sprout’s yells of shock at his sudden appearance.
“No, he’s not dead,” said McGonagall bitterly. “Unlike Dumbledore, he
was still carrying a wand  .  .  . and he seems to have learned a few tricks
from his master.”

With a tingle of horror, Harry saw in the distance a huge, batlike shape
flying through the darkness toward the perimeter wall.
There were heavy footfalls behind them, and a great deal of puffing:
Slughorn had just caught up.
“Harry!” he panted, massaging his immense chest beneath his emeraldgreen silk pajamas. “My dear boy  .  .  . what a surprise  .  .  . Minerva, do
please explain. . . . Severus . . . what . . . ?”
“Our headmaster is taking a short break,” said Professor McGonagall,
pointing at the Snape-shaped hole in the window.
“Professor!” Harry shouted, his hands at his forehead. He could see the
Inferi-filled lake sliding beneath him, and he felt the ghostly green boat
bump into the underground shore, and Voldemort leapt from it with murder
in his heart —

“Professor, we’ve got to barricade the school, he’s coming now!”
“Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is coming,” she told the other
teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped; Slughorn let out a low groan. “Potter
has work to do in the castle on Dumbledore’s orders. We need to put in
place every protection of which we are capable while Potter does what he
needs to do.”

“You realize, of course, that nothing we do will be able to keep out YouKnow-Who indefinitely?” squeaked Flitwick.
“But we can hold him up,” said Professor Sprout.
“Thank you, Pomona,” said Professor McGonagall, and between the two
witches there passed a look of grim understanding. “I suggest we establish
basic protection around the place, then gather our students and meet in the
Great Hall. Most must be evacuated, though if any of those who are over
age wish to stay and fight, I think they ought to be given the chance.”
“Agreed,” said Professor Sprout, already hurrying toward the door. “I
shall meet you in the Great Hall in twenty minutes with my House.”
And as she jogged out of sight, they could hear her muttering,
“Tentacula. Devil’s Snare. And Snargaluff pods . . . yes, I’d like to see the
Death Eaters fighting those.”

“I can act from here,” said Flitwick, and although he could barely see out
of it, he pointed his wand through the smashed window and started
muttering incantations of great complexity. Harry heard a weird rushing
noise, as though Flitwick had unleashed the power of the wind into the
grounds.

“Professor,” Harry said, approaching the little Charms master, “Professor,
I’m sorry to interrupt, but this is important. Have you got any idea where
the diadem of Ravenclaw is?”
“— Protego Horribilis — the diadem of Ravenclaw?” squeaked Flitwick.
“A little extra wisdom never goes amiss, Potter, but I hardly think it would
be much use in this situation!”
“I only meant — do you know where it is? Have you ever seen it?”
“Seen it? Nobody has seen it in living memory! Long since lost, boy!”
Harry felt a mixture of desperate disappointment and panic. What, then,
was the Horcrux?

“We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great Hall, Filius!” said
Professor McGonagall, beckoning to Harry and Luna to follow her.
They had just reached the door when Slughorn rumbled into speech.
“My word,” he puffed, pale and sweaty, his walrus mustache aquiver.
“What a to-do! I’m not at all sure whether this is wise, Minerva. He is
bound to find a way in, you know, and anyone who has tried to delay him
will be in most grievous peril —”
“I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twenty
minutes, also,” said Professor McGonagall. “If you wish to leave with your
students, we shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to sabotage our
resistance or take up arms against us within this castle, then, Horace, we
duel to kill.”

“Minerva!” he said, aghast.
“The time has come for Slytherin House to decide upon its loyalties,”
interrupted Professor McGonagall. “Go and wake your students, Horace.”
Harry did not stay to watch Slughorn splutter: He and Luna ran after
Professor McGonagall, who had taken up a position in the middle of the
corridor and raised her wand.

“Piertotum — oh, for heaven’s sake, Filch, not now —”
The aged caretaker had just come hobbling into view, shouting, “Students
out of bed! Students in the corridors!”
“They’re supposed to be, you blithering idiot!” shouted McGonagall.
“Now go and do something constructive! Find Peeves!”
“P-Peeves?” stammered Filch as though he had never heard the name
before.

“Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peeves! Haven’t you been complaining about him
for a quarter of a century? Go and fetch him, at once!”
Filch evidently thought Professor McGonagall had taken leave of her
senses, but hobbled away, hunch-shouldered, muttering under his breath.
“And now — Piertotum Locomotor!” cried Professor McGonagall.
And all along the corridor the statues and suits of armor jumped down
from their plinths, and from the echoing crashes from the floors above and
below, Harry knew that their fellows throughout the castle had done the
same.
“Hogwarts is threatened!” shouted Professor McGonagall. “Man the
boundaries, protect us, do your duty to our school!”
Clattering and yelling, the horde of moving statues stampeded past
Harry: some of them smaller, others larger, than life. There were animals
too, and the clanking suits of armor brandished swords and spiked balls on
chains.

“Now, Potter,” said McGonagall, “you and Miss Lovegood had better
return to your friends and bring them to the Great Hall — I shall rouse the
other Gryffindors.”
They parted at the top of the next staircase, Harry and Luna running back
toward the concealed entrance to the Room of Requirement. As they ran,
they met crowds of students, most wearing traveling cloaks over their
pajamas, being shepherded down to the Great Hall by teachers and prefects.
“That was Potter!”
“Harry Potter!”

“It was him, I swear, I just saw him!”
But Harry did not look back, and at last they reached the entrance to the
Room of Requirement. Harry leaned against the enchanted wall, which
opened to admit them, and he and Luna sped back down the steep staircase.
“Wh — ?”
As the room came into view, Harry slipped down a few stairs in shock. It
was packed, far more crowded than when he had last been in there.
Kingsley and Lupin were looking up at him, as were Oliver Wood, Katie
Bell, Angelina Johnson and Alicia Spinnet, Bill and Fleur, and Mr. and Mrs.
Weasley.
“Harry, what’s happening?” said Lupin, meeting him at the foot of the
stairs.

“Voldemort’s on his way, they’re barricading the school — Snape’s run
for it — What are you doing here? How did you know?”
“We sent messages to the rest of Dumbledore’s Army,” Fred explained.
“You couldn’t expect everyone to miss the fun, Harry, and the D.A. let the
Order of the Phoenix know, and it all kind of snowballed.”
“What first, Harry?” called George. “What’s going on?”
“They’re evacuating the younger kids and everyone’s meeting in the
Great Hall to get organized,” Harry said. “We’re fighting.”

There was a great roar and a surge toward the foot of the stairs; he was
pressed back against the wall as they ran past him, the mingled members of
the Order of the Phoenix, Dumbledore’s Army, and Harry’s old Quidditch
team, all with their wands drawn, heading up into the main castle.
“Come on, Luna,” Dean called as he passed, holding out his free hand;
she took it and followed him back up the stairs.
The crowd was thinning: Only a little knot of people remained below in
the Room of Requirement, and Harry joined them. Mrs. Weasley was
struggling with Ginny. Around them stood Lupin, Fred, George, Bill, and
Fleur.

“You’re underage!” Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry
approached. “I won’t permit it! The boys, yes, but you, you’ve got to go
home!”
“I won’t!”
Ginny’s hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her mother’s grip.
“I’m in Dumbledore’s Army —”
“A teenagers’ gang!”
“A teenagers’ gang that’s about to take him on, which no one else has
dared to do!” said Fred.
“She’s sixteen!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “She’s not old enough! What you
two were thinking, bringing her with you —”
Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of themselves.
“Mum’s right, Ginny,” said Bill gently. “You can’t do this. Everyone
underage will have to leave, it’s only right.”
“I can’t go home!” Ginny shouted, angry tears sparkling in her eyes. “My
whole family’s here, I can’t stand waiting there alone and not knowing and
—”

Her eyes met Harry’s for the first time. She looked at him beseechingly,
but he shook his head and she turned away bitterly.
“Fine,” she said, staring at the entrance to the tunnel back to the Hog’s
Head. “I’ll say good-bye now, then, and —”

There was a scuffling and a great thump: Someone else had clambered
out of the tunnel, overbalanced slightly, and fallen. He pulled himself up on
the nearest chair, looked around through lopsided horn-rimmed glasses, and
said, “Am I too late? Has it started? I only just found out, so I — I —”
Percy spluttered into silence. Evidently he had not expected to run into
most of his family. There was a long moment of astonishment, broken by
Fleur turning to Lupin and saying, in a wildly transparent attempt to break
the tension, “So — ’ow eez leetle Teddy?”

Lupin blinked at her, startled. The silence between the Weasleys seemed
to be solidifying, like ice.
“I — oh yes — he’s fine!” Lupin said loudly. “Yes, Tonks is with him —
at her mother’s —”

Percy and the other Weasleys were still staring at one another, frozen.
“Here, I’ve got a picture!” Lupin shouted, pulling a photograph from
inside his jacket and showing it to Fleur and Harry, who saw a tiny baby
with a tuft of bright turquoise hair, waving fat fists at the camera.
“I was a fool!” Percy roared, so loudly that Lupin nearly dropped his
photograph. “I was an idiot, I was a pompous prat, I was a — a —”
“Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry moron,” said Fred.

Percy swallowed.
“Yes, I was!”
“Well, you can’t say fairer than that,” said Fred, holding out his hand to
Percy.
Mrs. Weasley burst into tears. She ran forward, pushed Fred aside, and
pulled Percy into a strangling hug, while he patted her on the back, his eyes
on his father.
“I’m sorry, Dad,” Percy said.
Mr. Weasley blinked rather rapidly, then he too hurried to hug his son.
“What made you see sense, Perce?” inquired George.

“It’s been coming on for a while,” said Percy, mopping his eyes under his
glasses with a corner of his traveling cloak. “But I had to find a way out and
it’s not so easy at the Ministry, they’re imprisoning traitors all the time. I
managed to make contact with Aberforth and he tipped me off ten minutes
ago that Hogwarts was going to make a fight of it, so here I am.”
“Well, we do look to our prefects to take a lead at times such as these,”
said George in a good imitation of Percy’s most pompous manner. “Now
let’s get upstairs and fight, or all the good Death Eaters’ll be taken.”
“So, you’re my sister-in-law now?” said Percy, shaking hands with Fleur
as they hurried off toward the staircase with Bill, Fred, and George.
“Ginny!” barked Mrs. Weasley.

Ginny had been attempting, under cover of the reconciliation, to sneak
upstairs too.
“Molly, how about this,” said Lupin. “Why doesn’t Ginny stay here, then
at least she’ll be on the scene and know what’s going on, but she won’t be
in the middle of the fighting?”
“I —”

“That’s a good idea,” said Mr. Weasley firmly. “Ginny, you stay in this
room, you hear me?”
Ginny did not seem to like the idea much, but under her father’s
unusually stern gaze, she nodded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin headed
off for the stairs as well.
“Where’s Ron?” asked Harry. “Where’s Hermione?”
“They must have gone up to the Great Hall already,” Mr. Weasley called
over his shoulder.
“I didn’t see them pass me,” said Harry.
“They said something about a bathroom,” said Ginny, “not long after you
left.”
“A bathroom?”

Harry strode across the room to an open door leading off the Room of
Requirement and checked the bathroom beyond. It was empty.
“You’re sure they said bath — ?”
But then his scar seared and the Room of Requirement vanished: He was
looking through the high wrought-iron gates with winged boars on pillars at
either side, looking through the dark grounds toward the castle, which was
ablaze with lights. Nagini lay draped over his shoulders. He was possessed
of that cold, cruel sense of purpose that preceded murder.


CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE

THE BATTLE OF HOGWARTS

he enchanted ceiling of the Great Hall was dark and scattered with
stars, and below it the four long House tables were lined with
disheveled students, some in traveling cloaks, others in dressing gowns.
Here and there shone the pearly white figures of the school ghosts. Every
eye, living and dead, was fixed upon Professor McGonagall, who was
speaking from the raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her stood
the remaining teachers, including the palomino centaur, Firenze, and the
members of the Order of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight.

“.  .  . evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and Madam Pomfrey.
Prefects, when I give the word, you will organize your House and take your
charges, in an orderly fashion, to the evacuation point.”
Many of the students looked petrified. However, as Harry skirted the
walls, scanning the Gryffindor table for Ron and Hermione, Ernie
Macmillan stood up at the Hufflepuff table and shouted, “And what if we
want to stay and fight?”

There was a smattering of applause.
“If you are of age, you may stay,” said Professor McGonagall.
“What about our things?” called a girl at the Ravenclaw table. “Our
trunks, our owls?”

“We have no time to collect possessions,” said Professor McGonagall.
“The important thing is to get you out of here safely.”
“Where’s Professor Snape?” shouted a girl from the Slytherin table.
“He has, to use the common phrase, done a bunk,” replied Professor
McGonagall, and a great cheer erupted from the Gryffindors, Hufflepuffs,
and Ravenclaws.

Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor table, still looking for
Ron and Hermione. As he passed, faces turned in his direction, and a great
deal of whispering broke out in his wake.
“We have already placed protection around the castle,” Professor
McGonagall was saying, “but it is unlikely to hold for very long unless we
reinforce it. I must ask you, therefore, to move quickly and calmly, and do
as your prefects —”

But her final words were drowned as a different voice echoed throughout
the Hall. It was high, cold, and clear: There was no telling from where it
came; it seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the monster it had
once commanded, it might have lain dormant there for centuries.
“I know that you are preparing to fight.” There were screams amongst the
students, some of whom clutched each other, looking around in terror for
the source of the sound. “Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do
not want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do
not want to spill magical blood.”

There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence that presses against
the eardrums, that seems too huge to be contained by walls.
“Give me Harry Potter,” said Voldemort’s voice, “and none shall be
harmed. Give me Harry Potter, and I shall leave the school untouched. Give
me Harry Potter, and you will be rewarded.
“You have until midnight.”

The silence swallowed them all again. Every head turned, every eye in
the place seemed to have found Harry, to hold him frozen in the glare of
thousands of invisible beams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin table
and he recognized Pansy Parkinson as she raised a shaking arm and
screamed, “But he’s there! Potter’s there! Someone grab him!”
Before Harry could speak, there was a massive movement. The
Gryffindors in front of him had risen and stood facing, not Harry, but the
Slytherins. Then the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the same moment, the
Ravenclaws, all of them with their backs to Harry, all of them looking
toward Pansy instead, and Harry, awestruck and overwhelmed, saw wands
emerging everywhere, pulled from beneath cloaks and from under sleeves.
“Thank you, Miss Parkinson,” said Professor McGonagall in a clipped
voice. “You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House
could follow.”

Harry heard the grinding of benches and then the sound of the Slytherins
trooping out on the other side of the Hall.
“Ravenclaws, follow on!” cried Professor McGonagall.
Slowly the four tables emptied. The Slytherin table was completely
deserted, but a number of older Ravenclaws remained seated while their
fellows filed out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed behind, and half of
Gryffindor remained in their seats, necessitating Professor McGonagall’s
descent from the teachers’ platform to chivvy the underage on their way.
“Absolutely not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!”
Harry hurried over to the Weasleys, all sitting together at the Gryffindor
table.

“Where are Ron and Hermione?”
“Haven’t you found — ?” began Mr. Weasley, looking worried.
But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised platform
to address those who had remained behind.

“We’ve only got half an hour until midnight, so we need to act fast! A
battle plan has been agreed between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order
of the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, and McGonagall are going to
take groups of fighters up to the three highest towers — Ravenclaw,
Astronomy, and Gryffindor — where they’ll have a good overview,
excellent positions from which to work spells. Meanwhile Remus” — he
indicated Lupin — “Arthur” — he pointed toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at
the Gryffindor table — “and I will take groups into the grounds. We’ll need
somebody to organize defense of the entrances of the passageways into the
school —”

“Sounds like a job for us,” called Fred, indicating himself and George,
and Kingsley nodded his approval.
“All right, leaders up here and we’ll divide up the troops!”
“Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to him, as students
flooded the platform, jostling for position, receiving instructions, “Aren’t
you supposed to be looking for something?”
“What? Oh,” said Harry, “oh yeah!”

He had almost forgotten about the Horcrux, almost forgotten that the
battle was being fought so that he could search for it: The inexplicable
absence of Ron and Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought
from his mind.

“Then go, Potter, go!”
“Right — yeah —”
He sensed eyes following him as he ran out of the Great Hall again, into
the entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. He allowed himself
to be swept up the marble staircase with them, but at the top he hurried off
along a deserted corridor. Fear and panic were clouding his thought
processes. He tried to calm himself, to concentrate on finding the Horcrux,
but his thoughts buzzed as frantically and fruitlessly as wasps trapped
beneath a glass. Without Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem
to marshal his ideas. He slowed down, coming to a halt halfway along an
empty passage, where he sat down upon the plinth of a departed statue and
pulled the Marauder’s Map out of the pouch around his neck. He could not
see Ron’s or Hermione’s names anywhere on it, though the density of the
crowd of dots now making its way to the Room of Requirement might, he
thought, be concealing them. He put the map away, pressed his hands over
his face, and closed his eyes, trying to concentrate. . . .

Voldemort thought I’d go to Ravenclaw Tower.
There it was: a solid fact, the place to start. Voldemort had stationed
Alecto Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room, and there could only be
one explanation: Voldemort feared that Harry already knew his Horcrux
was connected to that House.

But the only object anyone seemed to associate with Ravenclaw was the
lost diadem  .  .  . and how could the Horcrux be the diadem? How was it
possible that Voldemort, the Slytherin, had found the diadem that had
eluded generations of Ravenclaws? Who could have told him where to
look, when nobody had seen the diadem in living memory?
In living memory . . .

Beneath his fingers, Harry’s eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the
plinth and tore back the way he had come, now in pursuit of his one last
hope. The sound of hundreds of people marching toward the Room of
Requirement grew louder and louder as he returned to the marble stairs.
Prefects were shouting instructions, trying to keep track of the students in
their own Houses; there was much pushing and shoving; Harry saw
Zacharias Smith bowling over first-years to get to the front of the queue;
here and there younger students were in tears, while older ones called
desperately for friends or siblings. . . .

Harry caught sight of a pearly white figure drifting across the entrance
hall below and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor.
“Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!”
He forced his way back through the tide of students, finally reaching the
bottom of the stairs, where Nearly Headless Nick, ghost of Gryffindor
Tower, stood waiting for him.
“Harry! My dear boy!”

Nick made to grasp Harry’s hands with both of his own: Harry’s felt as
though they had been thrust into icy water.
“Nick, you’ve got to help me. Who’s the ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?”
Nearly Headless Nick looked surprised and a little offended.
“The Gray Lady, of course; but if it is ghostly services you require — ?”
“It’s got to be her — d’you know where she is?”
“Let’s see. . . .”

Nick’s head wobbled a little on his ruff as he turned hither and thither,
peering over the heads of the swarming students.
“That’s her over there, Harry, the young woman with the long hair.”
Harry looked in the direction of Nick’s transparent, pointing finger and
saw a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her, raised her
eyebrows, and drifted away through a solid wall.
Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the corridor into which she
had disappeared, he saw her at the very end of the passage, still gliding
smoothly away from him.
“Hey — wait — come back!”

She consented to pause, floating a few inches from the ground. Harry
supposed that she was beautiful, with her waist-length hair and floor-length
cloak, but she also looked haughty and proud. Close to, he recognized her
as a ghost he had passed several times in the corridor, but to whom he had
never spoken.

“You’re the Gray Lady?”
She nodded but did not speak.
“The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower?”
“That is correct.”

Her tone was not encouraging.
“Please: I need some help. I need to know anything you can tell me about
the lost diadem.”
A cold smile curved her lips.
“I am afraid,” she said, turning to leave, “that I cannot help you.”
“WAIT!”

He had not meant to shout, but anger and panic were threatening to
overwhelm him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front of him: It
was a quarter to midnight.
“This is urgent,” he said fiercely. “If that diadem’s at Hogwarts, I’ve got
to find it, fast.”

“You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem,” she said
disdainfully. “Generations of students have badgered me —”
“This isn’t about trying to get better marks!” Harry shouted at her. “It’s
about Voldemort — defeating Voldemort — or aren’t you interested in
that?”
She could not blush, but her transparent cheeks became more opaque,
and her voice was heated as she replied, “Of course I — how dare you
suggest — ?”
“Well, help me, then!”
Her composure was slipping.
“It — it is not a question of —” she stammered. “My mother’s diadem
—”

“Your mother’s?”
She looked angry with herself.
“When I lived,” she said stiffly, “I was Helena Ravenclaw.”
“You’re her daughter? But then, you must know what happened to it!”
“While the diadem bestows wisdom,” she said with an obvious effort to
pull herself together, “I doubt that it would greatly increase your chances of
defeating the wizard who calls himself Lord —”
“Haven’t I just told you, I’m not interested in wearing it!” Harry said
fiercely. “There’s no time to explain — but if you care about Hogwarts, if
you want to see Voldemort finished, you’ve got to tell me anything you
know about the diadem!”

She remained quite still, floating in midair, staring down at him, and a
sense of hopelessness engulfed Harry. Of course, if she had known
anything, she would have told Flitwick or Dumbledore, who had surely
asked her the same question. He had shaken his head and made to turn away
when she spoke in a low voice.
“I stole the diadem from my mother.”
“You — you did what?”
“I stole the diadem,” repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a whisper. “I sought
to make myself cleverer, more important than my mother. I ran away with
it.”

He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence, and did
not ask; he simply listened, hard, as she went on:
“My mother, they say, never admitted that the diadem was gone, but
pretended that she had it still. She concealed her loss, my dreadful betrayal,
even from the other founders of Hogwarts.
“Then my mother fell ill — fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy, she was
desperate to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me,
though I spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest
until he had done so.”

Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw back her head.
“He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. When I refused to return
with him, he became violent. The Baron was always a hot-tempered man.
Furious at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he stabbed me.”
“The Baron? You mean — ?”

“The Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray Lady, and she lifted aside the
cloak she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. “When he
saw what he had done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon
that had claimed my life, and used it to kill himself. All these centuries
later, he wears his chains as an act of penitence . . . as he should,” she added
bitterly.

“And . . . and the diadem?”
“It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blundering
through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree.”
“A hollow tree?” repeated Harry. “What tree? Where was this?”
“A forest in Albania. A lonely place I thought was far beyond my
mother’s reach.”

“Albania,” repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from
confusion, and now he understood why she was telling him what she had
denied Dumbledore and Flitwick. “You’ve already told someone this story,
haven’t you? Another student?”
She closed her eyes and nodded.
“I had  .  .  . no idea.  .  .  . He was  .  .  . flattering. He seemed to  .  .  . to
understand . . . to sympathize. . . .”

Yes, Harry thought, Tom Riddle would certainly have understood Helena
Ravenclaw’s desire to possess fabulous objects to which she had little right.
“Well, you weren’t the first person Riddle wormed things out of,” Harry
muttered. “He could be charming when he wanted. . . .”
So Voldemort had managed to wheedle the location of the lost diadem
out of the Gray Lady. He had traveled to that far-flung forest and retrieved
the diadem from its hiding place, perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts,
before he even started work at Borgin and Burkes.

And wouldn’t those secluded Albanian woods have seemed an excellent
refuge when, so much later, Voldemort had needed a place to lie low,
undisturbed, for ten long years?
But the diadem, once it became his precious Horcrux, had not been left in
that lowly tree. . . . No, the diadem had been returned secretly to its true
home, and Voldemort must have put it there —
“— the night he asked for a job!” said Harry, finishing his thought.
“I beg your pardon?”

“He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked Dumbledore to let
him teach!” said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him to make sense of it
all. “He must’ve hidden the diadem on his way up to, or down from,
Dumbledore’s office! But it was still worth trying to get the job — then he
might’ve got the chance to nick Gryffindor’s sword as well — thank you,
thanks!”

Harry left her floating there, looking utterly bewildered. As he rounded
the corner back into the entrance hall, he checked his watch. It was five
minutes until midnight, and though he now knew what the last Horcrux
was, he was no closer to discovering where it was. . . .
Generations of students had failed to find the diadem; that suggested that
it was not in Ravenclaw Tower — but if not there, where? What hiding
place had Tom Riddle discovered inside Hogwarts Castle, that he believed
would remain secret forever?

Lost in desperate speculation, Harry turned a corner, but he had taken
only a few steps down the new corridor when the window to his left broke
open with a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt aside, a gigantic body
flew in through the window and hit the opposite wall. Something large and
furry detached itself, whimpering, from the new arrival and flung itself at
Harry.

“Hagrid!” Harry bellowed, fighting off Fang the boarhound’s attentions
as the enormous bearded figure clambered to his feet. “What the — ?”
“Harry, yer here! Yer here!”
Hagrid stooped down, bestowed upon Harry a cursory and rib-cracking
hug, then ran back to the shattered window.
“Good boy, Grawpy!” he bellowed through the hole in the window. “I’ll
see yer in a moment, there’s a good lad!”
Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark night, Harry saw bursts of light in the
distance and heard a weird, keening scream. He looked down at his watch:
It was midnight. The battle had begun.

“Blimey, Harry,” panted Hagrid, “this is it, eh? Time ter fight?”
“Hagrid, where have you come from?”
“Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave,” said Hagrid grimly.
“Voice carried, didn’ it? ‘Yeh got till midnight ter gimme Potter.’ Knew yeh
mus’ be here, knew what mus’ be happenin’. Get down, Fang. So we come
ter join in, me an’ Grawpy an’ Fang. Smashed our way through the
boundary by the forest, Grawpy was carryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter
let me down at the castle, so he shoved me through the window, bless him.
Not exac’ly what I meant, bu’ — where’s Ron an’ Hermione?”
“That,” said Harry, “is a really good question. Come on.”

They hurried together along the corridor, Fang lolloping beside them.
Harry could hear movement through the corridors all around: running
footsteps, shouts; through the windows, he could see more flashes of light
in the dark grounds.

“Where’re we goin’?” puffed Hagrid, pounding along at Harry’s heels,
making the floorboards quake.
“I dunno exactly,” said Harry, making another random turn, “but Ron and
Hermione must be around here somewhere. . . .”

The first casualties of the battle were already strewn across the passage
ahead: The two stone gargoyles that usually guarded the entrance to the
staffroom had been smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed through another
broken window. Their remains stirred feebly on the floor, and as Harry leapt
over one of their disembodied heads, it moaned faintly, “Oh, don’t mind
me . . . I’ll just lie here and crumble. . . .”

Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the marble bust of
Rowena Ravenclaw at Xenophilius’s house, wearing that mad headdress —
and then of the statue in Ravenclaw Tower, with the stone diadem upon her
white curls. . . .

And as he reached the end of the passage, the memory of a third stone
effigy came back to him: that of an ugly old warlock, onto whose head
Harry himself had placed a wig and a battered old tiara. The shock shot
through Harry with the heat of firewhisky, and he nearly stumbled.
He knew, at last, where the Horcrux sat waiting for him. . . .

Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated alone, might have
been arrogant enough to assume that he, and only he, had penetrated the
deepest mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, Dumbledore and Flitwick,
those model pupils, had never set foot in that particular place, but he, Harry,
had strayed off the beaten track in his time at school — here at last was a
secret he and Voldemort knew, that Dumbledore had never discovered —
He was roused by Professor Sprout, who was thundering past followed
by Neville and half a dozen others, all of them wearing earmuffs and
carrying what appeared to be large potted plants.

“Mandrakes!” Neville bellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran.
“Going to lob them over the walls — they won’t like this!”
Harry knew now where to go: He sped off, with Hagrid and Fang
galloping behind him. They passed portrait after portrait, and the painted
figures raced alongside them, wizards and witches in ruffs and breeches, in
armor and cloaks, cramming themselves into each others’ canvases,
screaming news from other parts of the castle. As they reached the end of
this corridor, the whole castle shook, and Harry knew, as a gigantic vase
blew off its plinth with explosive force, that it was in the grip of
enchantments more sinister than those of the teachers and the Order.

“It’s all righ’, Fang — it’s all righ’!” yelled Hagrid, but the great
boarhound had taken flight as slivers of china flew like shrapnel through the
air, and Hagrid pounded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry alone.
He forged on through the trembling passages, his wand at the ready, and
for the length of one corridor the little painted knight, Sir Cadogan, rushed
from painting to painting beside him, clanking along in his armor,
screaming encouragement, his fat little pony cantering behind him.
“Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, Harry
Potter, see them off!”

Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a small knot of
students, including Lee Jordan and Hannah Abbott, standing beside another
empty plinth, whose statue had concealed a secret passageway. Their wands
were drawn and they were listening at the concealed hole.
“Nice night for it!” Fred shouted as the castle quaked again, and Harry
sprinted by, elated and terrified in equal measure. Along yet another
corridor he dashed, and then there were owls everywhere, and Mrs. Norris
was hissing and trying to bat them with her paws, no doubt to return them
to their proper place. . . .

“Potter!”
Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor ahead, his wand held
ready.
“I’ve had hundreds of kids thundering through my pub, Potter!”
“I know, we’re evacuating,” Harry said, “Voldemort’s —”
“— attacking because they haven’t handed you over, yeah,” said
Aberforth, “I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never
occurred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of
Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safety. Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter
to keep ’em here?”

“It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your brother would never
have done it.”
Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite direction.
Your brother would never have done it . . . Well, it was the truth, Harry
thought as he ran on again; Dumbledore, who had defended Snape for so
long, would never have held students ransom. . . .
And then he skidded around a final corner and with a yell of mingled
relief and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione, both with their arms full of
large, curved, dirty yellow objects, Ron with a broomstick under his arm.

“Where the hell have you been?” Harry shouted.
“Chamber of Secrets,” said Ron.
“Chamber — what?” said Harry, coming to an unsteady halt before them.
“It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Wasn’t it
absolutely brilliant? There we were, after you left, and I said to Ron, even if
we find the other one, how are we going to get rid of it? We still hadn’t got
rid of the cup! And then he thought of it! The basilisk!”
“What the — ?”

“Something to get rid of Horcruxes,” said Ron simply.
Harry’s eyes dropped to the objects clutched in Ron and Hermione’s
arms: great curved fangs, torn, he now realized, from the skull of a dead
basilisk.

“But how did you get in there?” he asked, staring from the fangs to Ron.
“You need to speak Parseltongue!”
“He did!” whispered Hermione. “Show him, Ron!”
Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise.
“It’s what you did to open the locket,” he told Harry apologetically. “I
had to have a few goes to get it right, but,” he shrugged modestly, “we got
there in the end.”

“He was amazing!” said Hermione. “Amazing!”
“So . . .” Harry was struggling to keep up. “So . . .”
“So we’re another Horcrux down,” said Ron, and from under his jacket
he pulled the mangled remains of Hufflepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it.
Thought she should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet.”
“Genius!” yelled Harry.
“It was nothing,” said Ron, though he looked delighted with himself. “So
what’s new with you?”

As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead: All three of them
looked up as dust fell from the ceiling and they heard a distant scream.
“I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where it is,” said Harry,
talking fast. “He hid it exactly where I hid my old Potions book, where
everyone’s been hiding stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only one
to find it. Come on.”

As the walls trembled again, he led the other two back through the
concealed entrance and down the staircase into the Room of Requirement.
It was empty except for three women: Ginny, Tonks, and an elderly witch
wearing a moth-eaten hat, whom Harry recognized immediately as
Neville’s grandmother.

“Ah, Potter,” she said crisply as if she had been waiting for him. “You
can tell us what’s going on.”
“Is everyone okay?” said Ginny and Tonks together.
“’S far as we know,” said Harry. “Are there still people in the passage to
the Hog’s Head?”

He knew that the room would not be able to transform while there were
still users inside it.
“I was the last to come through,” said Mrs. Longbottom. “I sealed it, I
think it unwise to leave it open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you
seen my grandson?”
“He’s fighting,” said Harry.
“Naturally,” said the old lady proudly. “Excuse me, I must go and assist
him.”

With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone steps.
Harry looked at Tonks.
“I thought you were supposed to be with Teddy at your mother’s?”
“I couldn’t stand not knowing —” Tonks looked anguished. “She’ll look
after him — have you seen Remus?”
“He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the grounds —”
Without another word, Tonks sped off.
“Ginny,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but we need you to leave too. Just for a
bit. Then you can come back in.”
Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary.
“And then you can come back in!” he shouted after her as she ran up the
steps after Tonks. “You’ve got to come back in!”
“Hang on a moment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve forgotten someone!”
“Who?” asked Hermione.

“The house-elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen, won’t they?”
“You mean we ought to get them fighting?” asked Harry.
“No,” said Ron seriously, “I mean we should tell them to get out. We
don’t want any more Dobbies, do we? We can’t order them to die for us —”
There was a clatter as the basilisk fangs cascaded out of Hermione’s
arms. Running at Ron, she flung them around his neck and kissed him full
on the mouth. Ron threw away the fangs and broomstick he was holding
and responded with such enthusiasm that he lifted Hermione off her feet.
“Is this the moment?” Harry asked weakly, and when nothing happened
except that Ron and Hermione gripped each other still more firmly and
swayed on the spot, he raised his voice. “OI! There’s a war going on here!”
Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still around each other.

“I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he had recently been hit
on the back of the head with a Bludger, “so it’s now or never, isn’t it?”
“Never mind that, what about the Horcrux?” Harry shouted. “D’you
think you could just — just hold it in until we’ve got the diadem?”
“Yeah — right — sorry —” said Ron, and he and Hermione set about
gathering up fangs, both pink in the face.

It was clear, as the three of them stepped back into the corridor upstairs,
that in the minutes that they had spent in the Room of Requirement the
situation within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls and ceiling
were shaking worse than ever; dust filled the air, and through the nearest
window, Harry saw bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the
castle that he knew the Death Eaters must be very near to entering the place.
Looking down, Harry saw Grawp the giant meandering past, swinging what
looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and roaring his displeasure.
“Let’s hope he steps on some of them!” said Ron as more screams echoed
from close by.

“As long as it’s not any of our lot!” said a voice: Harry turned and saw
Ginny and Tonks, both with their wands drawn at the next window, which
was missing several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a well-aimed
jinx into a crowd of fighters below.

“Good girl!” roared a figure running through the dust toward them, and
Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray hair flying as he led a small group of
students past. “They look like they might be breaching the north
battlements, they’ve brought giants of their own!”
“Have you seen Remus?” Tonks called after him.
“He was dueling Dolohov,” shouted Aberforth, “haven’t seen him since!”
“Tonks,” said Ginny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay —”
But Tonks had run off into the dust after Aberforth.
Ginny turned, helpless, to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
“They’ll be all right,” said Harry, though he knew they were empty
words. “Ginny, we’ll be back in a moment, just keep out of the way, keep
safe — come on!” he said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran back to the
stretch of wall beyond which the Room of Requirement was waiting to do
the bidding of the next entrant.

I need the place where everything is hidden, Harry begged of it inside his
head, and the door materialized on their third run past.
The furor of the battle died the moment they crossed the threshold and
closed the door behind them: All was silent. They were in a place the size
of a cathedral with the appearance of a city, its towering walls built of
objects hidden by thousands of long-gone students.
“And he never realized anyone could get in?” said Ron, his voice echoing
in the silence.

“He thought he was the only one,” said Harry. “Too bad for him I’ve had
to hide stuff in my time  .  .  . this way,” he added, “I think it’s down
here. . . .”

He passed the stuffed troll and the Vanishing Cabinet Draco Malfoy had
mended last year with such disastrous consequences, then hesitated, looking
up and down aisles of junk; he could not remember where to go next. . . .
“Accio Diadem!” cried Hermione in desperation, but nothing flew
through the air toward them. It seemed that, like the vault at Gringotts, the
room would not yield its hidden objects that easily.
“Let’s split up,” Harry told the other two. “Look for a stone bust of an old
man wearing a wig and a tiara! It’s standing on a cupboard and it’s
definitely somewhere near here. . . .”

They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the others’ footsteps
echoing through the towering piles of junk, of bottles, hats, crates, chairs,
books, weapons, broomsticks, bats. . . .
“Somewhere near here,” Harry muttered to himself. “Somewhere  .  .  .
somewhere . . .”

Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went, looking for objects he
recognized from his one previous trip into the room. His breath was loud in
his ears, and then his very soul seemed to shiver: There it was, right ahead,
the blistered old cupboard in which he had hidden his old Potions book, and
on top of it, the pockmarked stone warlock wearing a dusty old wig and
what looked like an ancient, discolored tiara.

He had already stretched out his hand, though he remained ten feet away,
when a voice behind him said, “Hold it, Potter.”
He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and Goyle were standing
behind him, shoulder to shoulder, wands pointing right at Harry. Through
the small space between their jeering faces he saw Draco Malfoy.
“That’s my wand you’re holding, Potter,” said Malfoy, pointing his own
through the gap between Crabbe and Goyle.

“Not anymore,” panted Harry, tightening his grip on the hawthorn wand.
“Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s lent you theirs?”
“My mother,” said Draco.

Harry laughed, though there was nothing very humorous about the
situation. He could not hear Ron or Hermione anymore. They seemed to
have run out of earshot, searching for the diadem.
“So how come you three aren’t with Voldemort?” asked Harry.
“We’re gonna be rewarded,” said Crabbe: His voice was surprisingly soft
for such an enormous person; Harry had hardly ever heard him speak
before. Crabbe was smiling like a small child promised a large bag of
sweets. “We ’ung back, Potter. We decided not to go. Decided to bring you
to ’im.”

“Good plan,” said Harry in mock admiration. He could not believe that
he was this close, and was going to be thwarted by Malfoy, Crabbe, and
Goyle. He began edging slowly backward toward the place where the
Horcrux sat lopsided upon the bust. If he could just get his hands on it
before the fight broke out . . .

“So how did you get in here?” he asked, trying to distract them.
“I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last year,” said
Malfoy, his voice brittle. “I know how to get in.”
“We was hiding in the corridor outside,” grunted Goyle. “We can do
Diss-lusion Charms now! And then,” his face split into a gormless grin,
“you turned up right in front of us and said you was looking for a die-dum!
What’s a die-dum?”

“Harry?” Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the wall to
Harry’s right. “Are you talking to someone?”
With a whiplike movement, Crabbe pointed his wand at the fifty-foot
mountain of old furniture, of broken trunks, of old books and robes and
unidentifiable junk, and shouted, “Descendo!”
The wall began to totter, then the top third crumbled into the aisle next
door where Ron stood.

“Ron!” Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight Hermione screamed,
and Harry heard innumerable objects crashing to the floor on the other side
of the destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart, cried,
“Finite!” and it steadied.

“No!” shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbe’s arm as the latter made to repeat
his spell. “If you wreck the room you might bury this diadem thing!”
“What’s that matter?” said Crabbe, tugging himself free. “It’s Potter the
Dark Lord wants, who cares about a die-dum?”
“Potter came in here to get it,” said Malfoy with ill-disguised impatience
at the slow-wittedness of his colleagues, “so that must mean —”
“‘Must mean’?” Crabbe turned on Malfoy with undisguised ferocity.
“Who cares what you think? I don’t take your orders no more, Draco. You
an’ your dad are finished.”

“Harry?” shouted Ron again, from the other side of the junk wall.
“What’s going on?”
“Harry?” mimicked Crabbe. “What’s going — no, Potter! Crucio!”
Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe’s curse missed him but hit the
stone bust, which flew into the air; the diadem soared upward and then
dropped out of sight in the mass of objects on which the bust had rested.
“STOP!” Malfoy shouted at Crabbe, his voice echoing through the
enormous room. “The Dark Lord wants him alive —”
“So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe, throwing off Malfoy’s
restraining arm. “But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway,
what’s the diff — ?”

A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry by inches: Hermione had run around
the corner behind him and sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crabbe’s head. It
only missed because Malfoy pulled him out of the way.
“It’s that Mudblood! Avada Kedavra!”
Harry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that Crabbe had aimed to
kill wiped all else from his mind. He shot a Stunning Spell at Crabbe, who
lurched out of the way, knocking Malfoy’s wand out of his hand; it rolled
out of sight beneath a mountain of broken furniture and boxes.
“Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!” Malfoy yelled at Crabbe and
Goyle, who were both aiming at Harry: Their split second’s hesitation was
all Harry needed.

“Expelliarmus!”
Goyle’s wand flew out of his hand and disappeared into the bulwark of
objects beside him; Goyle leapt foolishly on the spot, trying to retrieve it;
Malfoy jumped out of range of Hermione’s second Stunning Spell, and
Ron, appearing suddenly at the end of the aisle, shot a full Body-Bind Curse
at Crabbe, which narrowly missed.

Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, “Avada Kedavra!” again. Ron
leapt out of sight to avoid the jet of green light. The wandless Malfoy
cowered behind a three-legged wardrobe as Hermione charged toward
them, hitting Goyle with a Stunning Spell as she came.
“It’s somewhere here!” Harry yelled at her, pointing at the pile of junk
into which the old tiara had fallen. “Look for it while I go and help R —”
“HARRY!” she screamed.

A roaring, billowing noise behind him gave him a moment’s warning. He
turned and saw both Ron and Crabbe running as hard as they could up the
aisle toward them.
“Like it hot, scum?” roared Crabbe as he ran.
But he seemed to have no control over what he had done. Flames of
abnormal size were pursuing them, licking up the sides of the junk
bulwarks, which were crumbling to soot at their touch.
“Aguamenti!” Harry bawled, but the jet of water that soared from the tip
of his wand evaporated in the air.
“RUN!”

Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crabbe
outstripped all of them, now looking terrified; Harry, Ron, and Hermione
pelted along in his wake, and the fire pursued them. It was not normal fire;
Crabbe had used a curse of which Harry had no knowledge: As they turned
a corner the flames chased them as though they were alive, sentient, intent
upon killing them. Now the fire was mutating, forming a gigantic pack of
fiery beasts: Flaming serpents, chimaeras, and dragons rose and fell and
rose again, and the detritus of centuries on which they were feeding was
thrown up in the air into their fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet,
before being consumed by the inferno.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had vanished from view: Harry, Ron, and
Hermione stopped dead; the fiery monsters were circling them, drawing
closer and closer, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heat was solid as
a wall around them.
“What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the deafening roars of the
fire. “What can we do?”
“Here!”
Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking broomsticks from the nearest pile of
junk and threw one to Ron, who pulled Hermione onto it behind him. Harry
swung his leg over the second broom and, with hard kicks to the ground,
they soared up into the air, missing by feet the horned beak of a flaming
raptor that snapped its jaws at them. The smoke and heat were becoming
overwhelming: Below them the cursed fire was consuming the contraband
of generations of hunted students, the guilty outcomes of a thousand banned
experiments, the secrets of the countless souls who had sought refuge in the
room. Harry could not see a trace of Malfoy, Crabbe, or Goyle anywhere:
He swooped as low as he dared over the marauding monsters of flame to try
to find them, but there was nothing but fire: What a terrible way to die. . . .
He had never wanted this. . . .

“Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!” bellowed Ron, though it was
impossible to see where the door was through the black smoke.
And then Harry heard a thin, piteous human scream from amidst the
terrible commotion, the thunder of devouring flame.
“It’s — too — dangerous — !” Ron yelled, but Harry wheeled in the air.
His glasses giving his eyes some small protection from the smoke, he raked
the firestorm below, seeking a sign of life, a limb or a face that was not yet
charred like wood. . . .

And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the unconscious Goyle,
the pair of them perched on a fragile tower of charred desks, and Harry
dived. Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm, but even as Harry
grasped it he knew at once that it was no good: Goyle was too heavy and
Malfoy’s hand, covered in sweat, slid instantly out of Harry’s —
“IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HARRY!” roared Ron’s
voice, and, as a great flaming chimaera bore down upon them, he and
Hermione dragged Goyle onto their broom and rose, rolling and pitching,
into the air once more as Malfoy clambered up behind Harry.

“The door, get to the door, the door!” screamed Malfoy in Harry’s ear,
and Harry sped up, following Ron, Hermione, and Goyle through the
billowing black smoke, hardly able to breathe: and all around them the last
few objects unburned by the devouring flames were flung into the air, as the
creatures of the cursed fire cast them high in celebration: cups and shields, a
sparkling necklace, and an old, discolored tiara —
“What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s that way!”
screamed Malfoy, but Harry made a hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem
seemed to fall in slow motion, turning and glittering as it dropped toward
the maw of a yawning serpent, and then he had it, caught it around his wrist
—

Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he soared upward and
straight toward the place where, he prayed, the door stood open: Ron,
Hermione, and Goyle had vanished; Malfoy was screaming and holding
Harry so tightly it hurt. Then, through the smoke, Harry saw a rectangular
patch on the wall and steered the broom at it, and moments later clean air
filled his lungs and they collided with the wall in the corridor beyond.
Malfoy fell off the broom and lay facedown, gasping, coughing, and
retching. Harry rolled over and sat up: The door to the Room of
Requirement had vanished, and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor
beside Goyle, who was still unconscious.
“C-Crabbe,” choked Malfoy as soon as he could speak. “C-Crabbe . . .”
“He’s dead,” said Ron harshly.

There was silence, apart from panting and coughing. Then a number of
huge bangs shook the castle, and a great cavalcade of transparent figures
galloped past on horses, their heads screaming with bloodlust under their
arms. Harry staggered to his feet when the Headless Hunt had passed and
looked around: The battle was still going on all around him. He could hear
more screams than those of the retreating ghosts. Panic flared within him.
“Where’s Ginny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She was supposed to
be going back into the Room of Requirement.”
“Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?” asked Ron, but he
too got to his feet, rubbing his chest and looking left and right. “Shall we
split up and look — ?”

“No,” said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle remained
slumped hopelessly on the corridor floor; neither of them had wands. “Let’s
stick together. I say we go — Harry, what’s that on your arm?”
“What? Oh yeah —”
He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It was still hot,
blackened with soot, but as he looked at it closely he was just able to make
out the tiny words etched upon it: WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN’S GREATEST
TREASURE.
A bloodlike substance, dark and tarry, seemed to be leaking from the
diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the thing vibrate violently, then break apart in
his hands, and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, most distant
scream of pain, echoing not from the grounds or the castle, but from the
thing that had just fragmented in his fingers.
“It must have been Fiendfyre!” whimpered Hermione, her eyes on the
broken pieces.

“Sorry?”
“Fiendfyre — cursed fire — it’s one of the substances that destroy
Horcruxes, but I would never, ever have dared use it, it’s so dangerous —
how did Crabbe know how to — ?”
“Must’ve learned from the Carrows,” said Harry grimly.
“Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they mentioned how to stop it,
really,” said Ron, whose hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face
was blackened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d be quite sorry he was
dead.”
“But don’t you realize?” whispered Hermione. “This means, if we can
just get the snake —”

But she broke off as yells and shouts and the unmistakable noises of
dueling filled the corridor. Harry looked around and his heart seemed to
fail: Death Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and Percy had just backed
into view, both of them dueling masked and hooded men.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of light flew in every
direction and the man dueling Percy backed off, fast: Then his hood slipped
and they saw a high forehead and streaked hair —
“Hello, Minister!” bellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx straight at
Thicknesse, who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his robes,
apparently in awful discomfort. “Did I mention I’m resigning?”
“You’re joking, Perce!” shouted Fred as the Death Eater he was battling
collapsed under the weight of three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse
had fallen to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him; he seemed
to be turning into some form of sea urchin. Fred looked at Percy with glee.
“You actually are joking, Perce.  .  .  . I don’t think I’ve heard you joke
since you were —”

The air exploded. They had been grouped together, Harry, Ron,
Hermione, Fred, and Percy, the two Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned,
the other Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment, when danger
seemed temporarily at bay, the world was rent apart. Harry felt himself
flying through the air, and all he could do was hold as tightly as possible to
that thin stick of wood that was his one and only weapon, and shield his
head in his arms: He heard the screams and yells of his companions without
a hope of knowing what had happened to them —

And then the world resolved itself into pain and semidarkness: He was
half buried in the wreckage of a corridor that had been subjected to a
terrible attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle had been blown
away, and hot stickiness on his cheek told him that he was bleeding
copiously. Then he heard a terrible cry that pulled at his insides, that
expressed agony of a kind neither flame nor curse could cause, and he stood
up, swaying, more frightened than he had been that day, more frightened,
perhaps, than he had been in his life. . . .

And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the wreckage, and three
redheaded men were grouped on the ground where the wall had blasted
apart. Harry grabbed Hermione’s hand as they staggered and stumbled over
stone and wood.

“No — no — no!” someone was shouting. “No! Fred! No!”
And Percy was shaking his brother, and Ron was kneeling beside them,
and Fred’s eyes stared without seeing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched
upon his face.


CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO

THE ELDER WAND

he world had ended, so why had the battle not ceased, the castle fallen
silent in horror, and every combatant laid down their arms? Harry’s
mind was in free fall, spinning out of control, unable to grasp the
impossibility, because Fred Weasley could not be dead, the evidence of all
his senses must be lying —

And then a body fell past the hole blown into the side of the school, and
curses flew in at them from the darkness, hitting the wall behind their
heads.

“Get down!” Harry shouted, as more curses flew through the night: He
and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Percy
lay across Fred’s body, shielding it from further harm, and when Harry
shouted, “Percy, come on, we’ve got to move!” he shook his head.

“Percy!” Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime coating Ron’s face as
he seized his elder brother’s shoulders and pulled, but Percy would not
budge. “Percy, you can’t do anything for him! We’re going to —”
Hermione screamed, and Harry, turning, did not need to ask why. A
monstrous spider the size of a small car was trying to climb through the
huge hole in the wall: One of Aragog’s descendants had joined the fight.
Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided and the monster
was blown backward, its legs jerking horribly, and vanished into the
darkness.

“It brought friends!” Harry called to the others, glancing over the edge of
the castle through the hole in the wall the curses had blasted: More giant
spiders were climbing the side of the building, liberated from the Forbidden
Forest, into which the Death Eaters must have penetrated. Harry fired
Stunning Spells down upon them, knocking the lead monster into its
fellows, so that they rolled back down the building and out of sight. Then
more curses came soaring over Harry’s head, so close he felt the force of
them blow his hair.
“Let’s move, NOW!”

Pushing Hermione ahead of him with Ron, Harry stooped to seize Fred’s
body under the armpits. Percy, realizing what Harry was trying to do,
stopped clinging to the body and helped; together, crouching low to avoid
the curses flying at them from the grounds, they hauled Fred out of the way.
“Here,” said Harry, and they placed him in a niche where a suit of armor
had stood earlier. He could not bear to look at Fred a second longer than he
had to, and after making sure that the body was well hidden, he took off
after Ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle had vanished, but at the end of
the corridor, which was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long
gone from the windows, he saw many people running backward and
forward, whether friends or foes he could not tell. Rounding the corner,
Percy let out a bull-like roar: “ROOKWOOD!” and sprinted off in the
direction of a tall man, who was pursuing a couple of students.
“Harry, in here!” Hermione screamed.

She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry: They seemed to be wrestling
together, and for one mad second Harry thought that they were embracing
again; then he saw that Hermione was trying to restrain Ron, to stop him
running after Percy.

“Listen to me — LISTEN, RON!”
“I wanna help — I wanna kill Death Eaters —”
His face was contorted, smeared with dust and smoke, and he was
shaking with rage and grief.
“Ron, we’re the only ones who can end it! Please — Ron — we need the
snake, we’ve got to kill the snake!” said Hermione.

But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another Horcrux could not bring
the satisfaction of revenge; he too wanted to fight, to punish them, the
people who had killed Fred, and he wanted to find the other Weasleys, and
above all make sure, make quite sure, that Ginny was not — but he could
not permit that idea to form in his mind —
“We will fight!” Hermione said. “We’ll have to, to reach the snake! But
let’s not lose sight now of what we’re supposed to be d-doing! We’re the
only ones who can end it!”

She was crying too, and she wiped her face on her torn and singed sleeve
as she spoke, but she took great heaving breaths to calm herself as, still
keeping a tight hold on Ron, she turned to Harry.
“You need to find out where Voldemort is, because he’ll have the snake
with him, won’t he? Do it, Harry — look inside him!”
Why was it so easy? Because his scar had been burning for hours,
yearning to show him Voldemort’s thoughts? He closed his eyes on her
command, and at once, the screams and the bangs and all the discordant
sounds of the battle were drowned until they became distant, as though he
stood far, far away from them. . . .

He was standing in the middle of a desolate but strangely familiar room,
with peeling paper on the walls and all the windows boarded except for one.
The sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and distant. The single
unblocked window revealed distant bursts of light where the castle stood,
but inside the room it was dark except for a solitary oil lamp.
He was rolling his wand between his fingers, watching it, his thoughts on
the room in the castle, the secret room only he had ever found, the room,
like the Chamber, that you had to be clever and cunning and inquisitive to
discover. . . . He was confident that the boy would not find the diadem . . .
although Dumbledore’s puppet had come much farther than he had ever
expected . . . too far. . . .

“My Lord,” said a voice, desperate and cracked. He turned: There was
Lucius Malfoy sitting in the darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the
marks of the punishment he had received after the boy’s last escape. One of
his eyes remained closed and puffy. “My Lord . . . please . . . my son . . .”
“If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join
me, like the rest of the Slytherins. Perhaps he has decided to befriend Harry
Potter?”

“No — never,” whispered Malfoy.
“You must hope not.”
“Aren’t — aren’t you afraid, my Lord, that Potter might die at another
hand but yours?” asked Malfoy, his voice shaking. “Wouldn’t it be  .  .  .
forgive me . . . more prudent to call off this battle, enter the castle, and seek
him y-yourself?”
“Do not pretend, Lucius. You wish the battle to cease so that you can
discover what has happened to your son. And I do not need to seek Potter.
Before the night is out, Potter will have come to find me.”
Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fingers. It
troubled him . . . and those things that troubled Lord Voldemort needed to
be rearranged. . . .

“Go and fetch Snape.”
“Snape, m-my Lord?”
“Snape. Now. I need him. There is a — service — I require from him.
Go.”
Frightened, stumbling a little through the gloom, Lucius left the room.
Voldemort continued to stand there, twirling the wand between his fingers,
staring at it.
“It is the only way, Nagini,” he whispered, and he looked around, and
there was the great thick snake, now suspended in midair, twisting
gracefully within the enchanted, protected space he had made for her, a
starry, transparent sphere somewhere between glittering cage and tank.
With a gasp, Harry pulled back and opened his eyes; at the same moment
his ears were assaulted with the screeches and cries, the smashes and bangs
of battle.

“He’s in the Shrieking Shack. The snake’s with him, it’s got some sort of
magical protection around it. He’s just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape.”
“Voldemort’s sitting in the Shrieking Shack?” said Hermione, outraged.
“He’s not — he’s not even fighting?”
“He doesn’t think he needs to fight,” said Harry. “He thinks I’m going to
go to him.”
“But why?”

“He knows I’m after Horcruxes — he’s keeping Nagini close beside him
— obviously I’m going to have to go to him to get near the thing —”
“Right,” said Ron, squaring his shoulders. “So you can’t go, that’s what
he wants, what he’s expecting. You stay here and look after Hermione, and
I’ll go and get it —”
Harry cut across Ron.

“You two stay here, I’ll go under the Cloak and I’ll be back as soon as I
—”
“No,” said Hermione, “it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak and
—”
“Don’t even think about it,” Ron snarled at her.
Before Hermione could get farther than “Ron, I’m just as capable —” the
tapestry at the top of the staircase on which they stood was ripped open.
“POTTER!”

Two masked Death Eaters stood there, but even before their wands were
fully raised, Hermione shouted, “Glisseo!”
The stairs beneath their feet flattened into a chute and she, Harry, and
Ron hurtled down it, unable to control their speed but so fast that the Death
Eaters’ Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot through the
concealing tapestry at the bottom and spun onto the floor, hitting the
opposite wall.

“Duro!” cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the tapestry, and there
were two loud, sickening crunches as the tapestry turned to stone and the
Death Eaters pursuing them crumpled against it.
“Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and Hermione flattened
themselves against a door as a herd of galloping desks thundered past,
shepherded by a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to
notice them: Her hair had come down and there was a gash on her cheek.
As she turned the corner, they heard her scream, “CHARGE!”
“Harry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Never mind us —”
But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were, he doubted
anyone would see their disembodied feet through the dust that clogged the
air, the falling stone, the shimmer of spells.

They ran down the next staircase and found themselves in a corridor full
of duelers. The portraits on either side of the fighters were crammed with
figures screaming advice and encouragement, while Death Eaters, both
masked and unmasked, dueled students and teachers. Dean had won himself
a wand, for he was face-to-face with Dolohov, Parvati with Travers. Harry,
Ron, and Hermione raised their wands at once, ready to strike, but the
duelers were weaving and darting around so much that there was a strong
likelihood of hurting one of their own side if they cast curses. Even as they
stood braced, looking for the opportunity to act, there came a great
“Wheeeeeeeeeeee!” and, looking up, Harry saw Peeves zooming over
them, dropping Snargaluff pods down onto the Death Eaters, whose heads
were suddenly engulfed in wriggling green tubers like fat worms.
“Argh!”

A fistful of tubers had hit the Cloak over Ron’s head; the slimy green
roots were suspended improbably in midair as Ron tried to shake them
loose.

“Someone’s invisible there!” shouted a masked Death Eater, pointing.
Dean made the most of the Death Eater’s momentary distraction,
knocking him out with a Stunning Spell; Dolohov attempted to retaliate and
Parvati shot a Body-Bind Curse at him.
“LET’S GO!” Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gathered the
Cloak tightly around themselves and pelted, heads down, through the midst
of the fighters, slipping a little in pools of Snargaluff juice, toward the top
of the marble staircase into the entrance hall.
“I’m Draco Malfoy, I’m Draco, I’m on your side!”
Draco was on the upper landing, pleading with another masked Death
Eater. Harry Stunned the Death Eater as they passed: Malfoy looked
around, beaming, for his savior, and Ron punched him from under the
Cloak. Malfoy fell backward on top of the Death Eater, his mouth bleeding,
utterly bemused.

“And that’s the second time we’ve saved your life tonight, you two-faced
bastard!” Ron yelled.
There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the hall, Death Eaters
everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley, close to the front doors, in combat with
Flitwick, a masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right beside them.
Students ran in every direction, some carrying or dragging injured friends.
Harry directed a Stunning Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed
but nearly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere brandishing armfuls
of Venomous Tentacula, which looped itself happily around the nearest
Death Eater and began reeling him in.

Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped down the marble staircase: Glass
shattered to their left, and the Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House
points spilled its emeralds everywhere, so that people slipped and staggered
as they ran. Two bodies fell from the balcony overhead as they reached the
ground, and a gray blur that Harry took for an animal sped four-legged
across the hall to sink its teeth into one of the fallen.
“NO!” shrieked Hermione, and with a deafening blast from her wand,
Fenrir Greyback was thrown backward from the feebly stirring body of
Lavender Brown. He hit the marble banisters and struggled to return to his
feet. Then, with a bright white flash and a crack, a crystal ball fell on top of
his head, and he crumpled to the ground and did not move.
“I have more!” shrieked Professor Trelawney from over the banisters.
“More for any who want them! Here —”

And with a movement like a tennis serve, she heaved another enormous
crystal sphere from her bag, waved her wand through the air, and caused the
ball to speed across the hall and smash through a window. At the same
moment, the heavy wooden front doors burst open, and more of the gigantic
spiders forced their way into the entrance hall.

Screams of terror rent the air: The fighters scattered, Death Eaters and
Hogwartians alike, and red and green jets of light flew into the midst of the
oncoming monsters, which shuddered and reared, more terrifying than ever.
“How do we get out?” yelled Ron over all the screaming, but before
either Harry or Hermione could answer they were bowled aside: Hagrid had
come thundering down the stairs, brandishing his flowery pink umbrella.
“Don’t hurt ’em, don’t hurt ’em!” he yelled.
“HAGRID, NO!”

Harry forgot everything else: He sprinted out from under the Cloak,
running bent double to avoid the curses illuminating the whole hall.
“HAGRID, COME BACK!”
But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when he saw it happen: Hagrid
vanished amongst the spiders, and with a great scurrying, a foul swarming
movement, they retreated under the onslaught of spells, Hagrid buried in
their midst.
“HAGRID!”

Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether friend or foe he did
not care: He was sprinting down the front steps into the dark grounds, and
the spiders were swarming away with their prey, and he could see nothing
of Hagrid at all.
“HAGRID!”

He thought he could make out an enormous arm waving from the midst
of the spider swarm, but as he made to chase after them, his way was
impeded by a monumental foot, which swung down out of the darkness and
made the ground on which he stood shudder. He looked up: A giant stood
before him, twenty feet high, its head hidden in shadow, nothing but its
treelike, hairy shins illuminated by light from the castle doors. With one
brutal, fluid movement, it smashed a massive fist through an upper window,
and glass rained down upon Harry, forcing him back under the shelter of the
doorway.

“Oh my — !” shrieked Hermione, as she and Ron caught up with Harry
and gazed upward at the giant now trying to seize people through the
window above.
“DON’T!” Ron yelled, grabbing Hermione’s hand as she raised her
wand. “Stun him and he’ll crush half the castle —”
“HAGGER?”

Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; only now did Harry
realize that Grawp was, indeed, an undersized giant. The gargantuan
monster trying to crush people on the upper floors looked around and let out
a roar. The stone steps trembled as he stomped toward his smaller kin, and
Grawp’s lopsided mouth fell open, showing yellow, half-brick-sized teeth;
and then they launched themselves at each other with the savagery of lions.
“RUN!” Harry roared; the night was full of hideous yells and blows as
the giants wrestled, and he seized Hermione’s hand and tore down the steps
into the grounds, Ron bringing up the rear. Harry had not lost hope of
finding and saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that they were halfway toward the
forest before they were brought up short again.

The air around them had frozen: Harry’s breath caught and solidified in
his chest. Shapes moved out in the darkness, swirling figures of
concentrated blackness, moving in a great wave toward the castle, their
faces hooded and their breath rattling. . . .
Ron and Hermione closed in beside him as the sounds of fighting behind
them grew suddenly muted, deadened, because a silence only dementors
could bring was falling thickly through the night, and Fred was gone, and
Hagrid was surely dying or already dead. . . .
“Come on, Harry!” said Hermione’s voice from a very long way away.
“Patronuses, Harry, come on!”

He raised his wand, but a dull hopelessness was spreading through him:
How many more lay dead that he did not yet know about; he felt as though
his soul had already half left his body. . . .
“HARRY, COME ON!” screamed Hermione.
A hundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward them, sucking their
way closer to Harry’s despair, which was like a promise of a feast. . . .
He saw Ron’s silver terrier burst into the air, flicker feebly, and expire; he
saw Hermione’s otter twist in midair and fade; and his own wand trembled
in his hand, and he almost welcomed the oncoming oblivion, the promise of
nothing, of no feeling. . . .

And then a silver hare, a boar, and a fox soared past Harry, Ron, and
Hermione’s heads: The dementors fell back before the creatures’ approach.
Three more people had arrived out of the darkness to stand beside them,
their wands outstretched, continuing to cast their Patronuses: Luna, Ernie,
and Seamus.

“That’s right,” said Luna encouragingly, as if they were back in the
Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the D.A.
“That’s right, Harry . . . come on, think of something happy. . . .”
“Something happy?” he said, his voice cracked.
“We’re all still here,” she whispered, “we’re still fighting. Come on,
now. . . .”

There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and then, with the
greatest effort it had ever cost him, the stag burst from the end of Harry’s
wand. It cantered forward, and now the dementors scattered in earnest, and
immediately the night was mild again, but the sounds of the surrounding
battle were loud in his ears.
“Can’t thank you enough,” said Ron shakily, turning to Luna, Ernie, and
Seamus, “you just saved —” king tremor, another giant came lurching out
of the darkness from the direction of the forest, brandishing a club taller
than any of them.

“RUN!” Harry shouted again, but the others needed no telling: They all
scattered, and not a second too soon, for next moment the creature’s vast
foot had fallen exactly where they had been standing. Harry looked round:
Ron and Hermione were following him, but the other three had vanished
back into the battle.

“Let’s get out of range!” yelled Ron as the giant swung its club again and
its bellows echoed through the night, across the grounds where bursts of red
and green light continued to illuminate the darkness.
“The Whomping Willow,” said Harry, “go!”

Somehow he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it into a small space
into which he could not look now: Thoughts of Fred and Hagrid, and his
terror for all the people he loved, scattered in and outside the castle, must
all wait, because they had to run, had to reach the snake and Voldemort,
because that was, as Hermione said, the only way to end it —
He sprinted, half believing he could outdistance death itself, ignoring the
jets of light flying in the darkness all around him, and the sound of the lake
crashing like the sea, and the creaking of the Forbidden Forest though the
night was windless; through grounds that seemed themselves to have risen
in rebellion, he ran faster than he had ever moved in his life, and it was he
who saw the great tree first, the Willow that protected the secret at its roots
with whiplike, slashing branches.

Panting and gasping, Harry slowed down, skirting the Willow’s swiping
branches, peering through the darkness toward its thick trunk, trying to see
the single knot in the bark of the old tree that would paralyze it. Ron and
Hermione caught up, Hermione so out of breath she could not speak.
“How — how’re we going to get in?” panted Ron. “I can — see the place
— if we just had — Crookshanks again —”
“Crookshanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent double, clutching her chest.
“Are you a wizard, or what?”

“Oh — right — yeah —”
Ron looked around, then directed his wand at a twig on the ground and
said, “Wingardium Leviosa!” The twig flew up from the ground, spun
through the air as if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed directly at the
trunk through the Willow’s ominously swaying branches. It jabbed at a
place near the roots, and at once, the writhing tree became still.
“Perfect!” panted Hermione.
“Wait.”

For one teetering second, while the crashes and booms of the battle filled
the air, Harry hesitated. Voldemort wanted him to do this, wanted him to
come . . . Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a trap?
But then the reality seemed to close upon him, cruel and plain: The only
way forward was to kill the snake, and the snake was where Voldemort was,
and Voldemort was at the end of this tunnel. . . .

“Harry, we’re coming, just get in there!” said Ron, pushing him forward.
Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the tree’s roots. It was a
much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had entered it. The
tunnel was low-ceilinged: They had had to double up to move through it
nearly four years previously; now there was nothing for it but to crawl.
Harry went first, his wand illuminated, expecting at any moment to meet
barriers, but none came. They moved in silence, Harry’s gaze fixed upon
the swinging beam of the wand held in his fist.

At last the tunnel began to slope upward and Harry saw a sliver of light
ahead. Hermione tugged at his ankle.
“The Cloak!” she whispered. “Put the Cloak on!”
He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of slippery cloth into his
free hand. With difficulty he dragged it over himself, murmured, “Nox,”
extinguishing his wandlight, and continued on his hands and knees, as
silently as possible, all his senses straining, expecting every second to be
discovered, to hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of green light.
And then he heard voices coming from the room directly ahead of them,
only slightly muffled by the fact that the opening at the end of the tunnel
had been blocked up by what looked like an old crate. Hardly daring to
breathe, Harry edged right up to the opening and peered through a tiny gap
left between crate and wall.

The room beyond was dimly lit, but he could see Nagini, swirling and
coiling like a serpent underwater, safe in her enchanted, starry sphere,
which floated unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a table, and a
long-fingered white hand toying with a wand. Then Snape spoke, and
Harry’s heart lurched: Snape was inches away from where he crouched,
hidden.

“. . . my Lord, their resistance is crumbling —”
“— and it is doing so without your help,” said Voldemort in his high,
clear voice. “Skilled wizard though you are, Severus, I do not think you will
make much difference now. We are almost there . . . almost.”
“Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Potter. I know I can find him, my
Lord. Please.”

Snape strode past the gap, and Harry drew back a little, keeping his eyes
fixed upon Nagini, wondering whether there was any spell that might
penetrate the protection surrounding her, but he could not think of anything.
One failed attempt, and he would give away his position. . . .
Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the red eyes, the
flattened, serpentine face, the pallor of him gleaming slightly in the
semidarkness.

“I have a problem, Severus,” said Voldemort softly.
“My Lord?” said Snape.
Voldemort raised the Elder Wand, holding it as delicately and precisely as
a conductor’s baton.

“Why doesn’t it work for me, Severus?”
In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake hissing slightly as
it coiled and uncoiled — or was it Voldemort’s sibilant sigh lingering on the
air?

“My — my Lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not understand. You — you
have performed extraordinary magic with that wand.”
“No,” said Voldemort. “I have performed my usual magic. I am
extraordinary, but this wand . . . no. It has not revealed the wonders it has
promised. I feel no difference between this wand and the one I procured
from Ollivander all those years ago.”
Voldemort’s tone was musing, calm, but Harry’s scar had begun to throb
and pulse: Pain was building in his forehead, and he could feel that
controlled sense of fury building inside Voldemort.
“No difference,” said Voldemort again.
Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face: He wondered whether
Snape sensed danger, was trying to find the right words to reassure his
master.

Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry lost sight of him for
seconds as he prowled, speaking in that same measured voice, while the
pain and fury mounted in Harry.
“I have thought long and hard, Severus. . . . Do you know why I have
called you back from the battle?”
And for a moment Harry saw Snape’s profile: His eyes were fixed upon
the coiling snake in its enchanted cage.
“No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me return. Let me find Potter.”
“You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I do. He
does not need finding. Potter will come to me. I know his weakness, you
see, his one great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck down around
him, knowing that it is for him that it happens. He will want to stop it at any
cost. He will come.”

“But my Lord, he might be killed accidentally by one other than yourself
—”
“My instructions to my Death Eaters have been perfectly clear. Capture
Potter. Kill his friends — the more, the better — but do not kill him.
“But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not Harry Potter. You
have been very valuable to me. Very valuable.”
“My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But — let me go and find the
boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to you. I know I can —”
“I have told you, no!” said Voldemort, and Harry caught the glint of red
in his eyes as he turned again, and the swishing of his cloak was like the
slithering of a snake, and he felt Voldemort’s impatience in his burning scar.
“My concern at the moment, Severus, is what will happen when I finally
meet the boy!”

“My Lord, there can be no question, surely — ?”
“— but there is a question, Severus. There is.”
Voldemort halted, and Harry could see him plainly again as he slid the
Elder Wand through his white fingers, staring at Snape.
“Why did both the wands I have used fail when directed at Harry
Potter?”

“I — I cannot answer that, my Lord.”
“Can’t you?”
The stab of rage felt like a spike driven through Harry’s head: He forced
his own fist into his mouth to stop himself from crying out in pain. He
closed his eyes, and suddenly he was Voldemort, looking into Snape’s pale
face.

“My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it, Severus, except to
kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed. Ollivander told me under torture of the
twin cores, told me to take another’s wand. I did so, but Lucius’s wand
shattered upon meeting Potter’s.”
“I — I have no explanation, my Lord.”
Snape was not looking at Voldemort now. His dark eyes were still fixed
upon the coiling serpent in its protective sphere.
“I sought a third wand, Severus. The Elder Wand, the Wand of Destiny,
the Deathstick. I took it from its previous master. I took it from the grave of
Albus Dumbledore.”

And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snape’s face was like a death
mask. It was marble white and so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to
see that anyone lived behind the blank eyes.
“My Lord — let me go to the boy —”
“All this long night, when I am on the brink of victory, I have sat here,”
said Voldemort, his voice barely louder than a whisper, “wondering,
wondering, why the Elder Wand refuses to be what it ought to be, refuses to
perform as legend says it must perform for its rightful owner . . . and I think
I have the answer.”
Snape did not speak.

“Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man, after all, Severus.
You have been a good and faithful servant, and I regret what must happen.”
“My Lord —”

“The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus, because I am not its
true master. The Elder Wand belongs to the wizard who killed its last
owner. You killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live, Severus, the Elder
Wand cannot be truly mine.”

“My Lord!” Snape protested, raising his wand.
“It cannot be any other way,” said Voldemort. “I must master the wand,
Severus. Master the wand, and I master Potter at last.”
And Voldemort swiped the air with the Elder Wand. It did nothing to
Snape, who for a split second seemed to think he had been reprieved: But
then Voldemort’s intention became clear. The snake’s cage was rolling
through the air, and before Snape could do anything more than yell, it had
encased him, head and shoulders, and Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue.
“Kill.”
There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snape’s face losing the little color
it had left; it whitened as his black eyes widened, as the snake’s fangs
pierced his neck, as he failed to push the enchanted cage off himself, as his
knees gave way and he fell to the floor.
“I regret it,” said Voldemort coldly.
He turned away; there was no sadness in him, no remorse. It was time to
leave this shack and take charge, with a wand that would now do his full
bidding. He pointed it at the starry cage holding the snake, which drifted
upward, off Snape, who fell sideways onto the floor, blood gushing from
the wounds in his neck. Voldemort swept from the room without a
backward glance, and the great serpent floated after him in its huge
protective sphere.

Back in the tunnel and his own mind, Harry opened his eyes: He had
drawn blood biting down on his knuckles in the effort not to shout out. Now
he was looking through the tiny crack between crate and wall, watching a
foot in a black boot trembling on the floor.
“Harry!” breathed Hermione behind him, but he had already pointed his
wand at the crate blocking his view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted
sideways silently. As quietly as he could, he pulled himself up into the
room.

He did not know why he was doing it, why he was approaching the dying
man: He did not know what he felt as he saw Snape’s white face, and the
fingers trying to staunch the bloody wound at his neck. Harry took off the
Invisibility Cloak and looked down upon the man he hated, whose widening
black eyes found Harry as he tried to speak. Harry bent over him, and
Snape seized the front of his robes and pulled him close.
A terrible rasping, gurgling noise issued from Snape’s throat.
“Take . . . it. . . . Take . . . it. . . .”

Something more than blood was leaking from Snape. Silvery blue,
neither gas nor liquid, it gushed from his mouth and his ears and his eyes,
and Harry knew what it was, but did not know what to do —
A flask, conjured from thin air, was thrust into his shaking hands by
Hermione. Harry lifted the silvery substance into it with his wand. When
the flask was full to the brim, and Snape looked as though there was no
blood left in him, his grip on Harry’s robes slackened.
“Look . . . at . . . me. . . .” he whispered.

The green eyes found the black, but after a second, something in the
depths of the dark pair seemed to vanish, leaving them fixed, blank, and
empty. The hand holding Harry thudded to the floor, and Snape moved no
more.


CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE

THE PRINCE’S TALE

arry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply staring down at him,
until quite suddenly a high, cold voice spoke so close to them that
Harry jumped to his feet, the flask gripped tightly in his hands, thinking that
Voldemort had reentered the room.

Voldemort’s voice reverberated from the walls and floor, and Harry
realized that he was talking to Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area,
that the residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in the castle
would hear him as clearly as if he stood beside them, his breath on the back
of their necks, a deathblow away.

“You have fought,” said the high, cold voice, “valiantly. Lord Voldemort
knows how to value bravery.
“Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me, you
will all die, one by one. I do not wish this to happen. Every drop of magical
blood spilled is a loss and a waste.
“Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat
immediately.

“You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with dignity. Treat your
injured.
“I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have permitted your
friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour
in the Forbidden Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to
me, have not given yourself up, then battle recommences. This time, I shall
enter the fray myself, Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish
every last man, woman, and child who has tried to conceal you from me.
One hour.”

Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically, looking at Harry.
“Don’t listen to him,” said Ron.
“It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s — let’s get back to the
castle, if he’s gone to the forest we’ll need to think of a new plan —”
She glanced at Snape’s body, then hurried back to the tunnel entrance.
Ron followed her. Harry gathered up the Invisibility Cloak, then looked
down at Snape. He did not know what to feel, except shock at the way
Snape had been killed, and the reason for which it had been done. . . .
They crawled back through the tunnel, none of them talking, and Harry
wondered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in
their heads, as he could.

You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me
yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest . . . One hour. . . .
Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of the castle. It could
only be an hour or so from dawn, yet it was pitch-black. The three of them
hurried toward the stone steps. A lone clog, the size of a small boat, lay
abandoned in front of them. There was no other sign of Grawp or of his
attacker.

The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no flashes of light now, no
bangs or screams or shouts. The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall
were stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all over the floor,
along with pieces of marble and splintered wood. Part of the banisters had
been blown away.

“Where is everyone?” whispered Hermione.
Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in the doorway.
The House tables were gone and the room was crowded. The survivors
stood in groups, their arms around each other’s necks. The injured were
being treated upon the raised platform by Madam Pomfrey and a group of
helpers. Firenze was amongst the injured; his flank poured blood and he
shook where he lay, unable to stand.

The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry could not see
Fred’s body, because his family surrounded him. George was kneeling at his
head; Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred’s chest, her body shaking, Mr.
Weasley stroking her hair while tears cascaded down his cheeks.
Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked away. Harry saw
Hermione approach Ginny, whose face was swollen and blotchy, and hug
her. Ron joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an arm around Ron’s
shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione moved closer to the rest of the family,
Harry had a clear view of the bodies lying next to Fred: Remus and Tonks,
pale and still and peaceful-looking, apparently asleep beneath the dark,
enchanted ceiling.

The Great Hall seemed to fly away, become smaller, shrink, as Harry
reeled backward from the doorway. He could not draw breath. He could not
bear to look at any of the other bodies, to see who else had died for him. He
could not bear to join the Weasleys, could not look into their eyes, when if
he had given himself up in the first place, Fred might never have died. . . .
He turned away and ran up the marble staircase. Lupin, Tonks  .  .  . He
yearned not to feel . . . He wished he could rip out his heart, his innards,
everything that was screaming inside him. . . .

The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined
the mass mourning in the Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching
the crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not slow down until he
reached the stone gargoyle guarding the headmaster’s office.
“Password?”

“Dumbledore!” said Harry without thinking, because it was he whom he
yearned to see, and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside, revealing the
spiral staircase behind.
But when Harry burst into the circular office he found a change. The
portraits that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single headmaster
or headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had flitted away,
charging through the paintings that lined the castle, so that they could have
a clear view of what was going on.

Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore’s deserted frame, which hung
directly behind the headmaster’s chair, then turned his back on it. The stone
Pensieve lay in the cabinet where it had always been: Harry heaved it onto
the desk and poured Snape’s memories into the wide basin with its runic
markings around the edge. To escape into someone else’s head would be a
blessed relief. . . . Nothing that even Snape had left him could be worse than
his own thoughts. The memories swirled, silver white and strange, and
without hesitating, with a feeling of reckless abandonment, as though this
would assuage his torturing grief, Harry dived.

He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found warm ground. When he
straightened up, he saw that he was in a nearly deserted playground. A
single huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls were
swinging backward and forward, and a skinny boy was watching them from
behind a clump of bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes were
so mismatched that it looked deliberate: too short jeans, a shabby, overlarge
coat that might have belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt.
Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more than nine or ten
years old, sallow, small, stringy. There was undisguised greed in his thin
face as he watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher and higher
than her sister.

“Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the elder of the two.
But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown
into the air, quite literally flown, launched herself skyward with a great
shout of laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground asphalt, she
soared like a trapeze artist through the air, staying up far too long, landing
far too lightly.

“Mummy told you not to!”
Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of her sandals on the
ground, making a crunching, grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.
“Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!”
“But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at this. Watch what I
can do.”

Petunia glanced around. The playground was deserted apart from
themselves and, though the girls did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up
a fallen flower from the bush behind which Snape lurked. Petunia
advanced, evidently torn between curiosity and disapproval. Lily waited
until Petunia was near enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm.
The flower sat there, opening and closing its petals, like some bizarre,
many-lipped oyster.

“Stop it!” shrieked Petunia.
“It’s not hurting you,” said Lily, but she closed her hand on the blossom
and threw it back to the ground.
“It’s not right,” said Petunia, but her eyes had followed the flower’s flight
to the ground and lingered upon it. “How do you do it?” she added, and
there was definite longing in her voice.
“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer contain himself, but had
jumped out from behind the bushes. Petunia shrieked and ran backward
toward the swings, but Lily, though clearly startled, remained where she
was. Snape seemed to regret his appearance. A dull flush of color mounted
the sallow cheeks as he looked at Lily.
“What’s obvious?” asked Lily.

Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a glance at the distant
Petunia, now hovering beside the swings, he lowered his voice and said, “I
know what you are.”
“What do you mean?”
“You’re . . . you’re a witch,” whispered Snape.
She looked affronted.
“That’s not a very nice thing to say to somebody!”
She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward her sister.
“No!” said Snape. He was highly colored now, and Harry wondered why
he did not take off the ridiculously large coat, unless it was because he did
not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped after the girls, looking
ludicrously batlike, like his older self.

The sisters considered him, united in disapproval, both holding on to one
of the swing poles as though it was the safe place in tag.
“You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watching you
for a while. But there’s nothing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a
wizard.”
Petunia’s laugh was like cold water.

“Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had recovered
from the shock of his unexpected appearance. “I know who you are. You’re
that Snape boy! They live down Spinner’s End by the river,” she told Lily,
and it was evident from her tone that she considered the address a poor
recommendation. “Why have you been spying on us?”
“Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and uncomfortable and dirtyhaired in the bright sunlight. “Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added
spitefully, “you’re a Muggle.”

Though Petunia evidently did not understand the word, she could hardly
mistake the tone.
“Lily, come on, we’re leaving!” she said shrilly. Lily obeyed her sister at
once, glaring at Snape as she left. He stood watching them as they marched
through the playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to observe him,
recognized Snape’s bitter disappointment, and understood that Snape had
been planning this moment for a while, and that it had all gone wrong. . . .
The scene dissolved, and before Harry knew it, re-formed around him.
He was now in a small thicket of trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering
through their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees made a basin of cool
green shade. Two children sat facing each other, cross-legged on the
ground. Snape had removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less
peculiar in the half light.

“. . . and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic outside school, you
get letters.”
“But I have done magic outside school!”
“We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re
a kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly,
“and they start training you, then you’ve got to go careful.”
There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen twig and twirled it
in the air, and Harry knew that she was imagining sparks trailing from it.
Then she dropped the twig, leaned in toward the boy, and said, “It is real,
isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re lying to me. Petunia says there
isn’t a Hogwarts. It is real, isn’t it?”

“It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get the letter, you
and me.”
“Really?” whispered Lily.
“Definitely,” said Snape, and even with his poorly cut hair and his odd
clothes, he struck an oddly impressive figure sprawled in front of her,
brimful of confidence in his destiny.
“And will it really come by owl?” Lily whispered.
“Normally,” said Snape. “But you’re Muggle-born, so someone from the
school will have to come and explain to your parents.”
“Does it make a difference, being Muggle-born?”
Snape hesitated. His black eyes, eager in the greenish gloom, moved over
the pale face, the dark red hair.
“No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any difference.”
“Good,” said Lily, relaxing: It was clear that she had been worrying.
“You’ve got loads of magic,” said Snape. “I saw that. All the time I was
watching you . . .”

His voice trailed away; she was not listening, but had stretched out on the
leafy ground and was looking up at the canopy of leaves overhead. He
watched her as greedily as he had watched her in the playground.
“How are things at your house?” Lily asked.
A little crease appeared between his eyes.
“Fine,” he said.

“They’re not arguing anymore?”
“Oh yes, they’re arguing,” said Snape. He picked up a fistful of leaves
and began tearing them apart, apparently unaware of what he was doing.
“But it won’t be that long and I’ll be gone.”
“Doesn’t your dad like magic?”
“He doesn’t like anything, much,” said Snape.
“Severus?”
A little smile twisted Snape’s mouth when she said his name.
“Yeah?”

“Tell me about the dementors again.”
“What d’you want to know about them for?”
“If I use magic outside school —”
“They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that! Dementors are for
people who do really bad stuff. They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban.
You’re not going to end up in Azkaban, you’re too —”
He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then a small rustling
noise behind Harry made him turn: Petunia, hiding behind a tree, had lost
her footing.

“Tuney!” said Lily, surprise and welcome in her voice, but Snape had
jumped to his feet.
“Who’s spying now?” he shouted. “What d’you want?”
Petunia was breathless, alarmed at being caught. Harry could see her
struggling for something hurtful to say.
“What is that you’re wearing, anyway?” she said, pointing at Snape’s
chest. “Your mum’s blouse?”
There was a crack: A branch over Petunia’s head had fallen. Lily
screamed: The branch caught Petunia on the shoulder, and she staggered
backward and burst into tears.
“Tuney!”

But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on Snape.
“Did you make that happen?”
“No.” He looked both defiant and scared.
“You did!” She was backing away from him. “You did! You hurt her!”
“No — no I didn’t!”
But the lie did not convince Lily: After one last burning look, she ran
from the little thicket, off after her sister, and Snape looked miserable and
confused. . . .

And the scene re-formed. Harry looked around: He was on platform nine
and three-quarters, and Snape stood beside him, slightly hunched, next to a
thin, sallow-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly resembled him. Snape
was staring at a family of four a short distance away. The two girls stood a
little apart from their parents. Lily seemed to be pleading with her sister;
Harry moved closer to listen.

“. . . I’m sorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen —” She caught her sister’s hand
and held tight to it, even though Petunia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once
I’m there — no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to go to
Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to change his mind!”
“I don’t — want — to — go!” said Petunia, and she dragged her hand
back out of her sister’s grasp. “You think I want to go to some stupid castle
and learn to be a — a —”

Her pale eyes roved over the platform, over the cats mewling in their
owners’ arms, over the owls fluttering and hooting at each other in cages,
over the students, some already in their long black robes, loading trunks
onto the scarlet steam engine or else greeting one another with glad cries
after a summer apart.

“— you think I want to be a — a freak?”
Lily’s eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in tugging her hand
away.
“I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a horrible thing to say.”
“That’s where you’re going,” said Petunia with relish. “A special school
for freaks. You and that Snape boy . . . weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s
good you’re being separated from normal people. It’s for our safety.”
Lily glanced toward her parents, who were looking around the platform
with an air of wholehearted enjoyment, drinking in the scene. Then she
looked back at her sister, and her voice was low and fierce.
“You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the
headmaster and begged him to take you.”

Petunia turned scarlet.
“Beg? I didn’t beg!”
“I saw his reply. It was very kind.”
“You shouldn’t have read —” whispered Petunia, “that was my private
— how could you — ?”
Lily gave herself away by half-glancing toward where Snape stood
nearby. Petunia gasped.

“That boy found it! You and that boy have been sneaking in my room!”
“No — not sneaking —” Now Lily was on the defensive. “Severus saw
the envelope, and he couldn’t believe a Muggle could have contacted
Hogwarts, that’s all! He says there must be wizards working undercover in
the postal service who take care of —”
“Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere!” said Petunia, now
as pale as she had been flushed. “Freak!” she spat at her sister, and she
flounced off to where her parents stood. . . .

The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along the corridor of the
Hogwarts Express as it clattered through the countryside. He had already
changed into his school robes, had perhaps taken the first opportunity to
take off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At last he stopped, outside a
compartment in which a group of rowdy boys were talking. Hunched in a
corner seat beside the window was Lily, her face pressed against the
windowpane.

Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down opposite Lily. She
glanced at him and then looked back out of the window. She had been
crying.
“I don’t want to talk to you,” she said in a constricted voice.
“Why not?”
“Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumbledore.”
“So what?”
She threw him a look of deep dislike.
“So she’s my sister!”
“She’s only a —” He caught himself quickly; Lily, too busy trying to
wipe her eyes without being noticed, did not hear him.
“But we’re going!” he said, unable to suppress the exhilaration in his
voice. “This is it! We’re off to Hogwarts!”
She nodded, mopping her eyes, but in spite of herself, she half smiled.
“You’d better be in Slytherin,” said Snape, encouraged that she had
brightened a little.
“Slytherin?”

One of the boys sharing the compartment, who had shown no interest at
all in Lily or Snape until that point, looked around at the word, and Harry,
whose attention had been focused entirely on the two beside the window,
saw his father: slight, black-haired like Snape, but with that indefinable air
of having been well-cared-for, even adored, that Snape so conspicuously
lacked.

“Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” James
asked the boy lounging on the seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry
realized that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile.
“My whole family have been in Slytherin,” he said.
“Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all right!”
Sirius grinned.
“Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you heading, if you’ve got the
choice?”

James lifted an invisible sword.
“‘Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my dad.”
Snape made a small, disparaging noise. James turned on him.
“Got a problem with that?”
“No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said otherwise. “If you’d rather
be brawny than brainy —”
“Where’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?” interjected Sirius.
James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked from
James to Sirius in dislike.
“Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment.”
“Oooooo . . .”

James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice; James tried to trip Snape as he
passed.
“See ya, Snivellus!” a voice called, as the compartment door
slammed. . . .
And the scene dissolved once more. . . .
Harry was standing right behind Snape as they faced the candlelit House
tables, lined with rapt faces. Then Professor McGonagall said, “Evans,
Lily!”
He watched his mother walk forward on trembling legs and sit down
upon the rickety stool. Professor McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto
her head, and barely a second after it had touched the dark red hair, the hat
cried, “Gryffindor!”

Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off the hat, handed it
back to Professor McGonagall, then hurried toward the cheering
Gryffindors, but as she went she glanced back at Snape, and there was a sad
little smile on her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the bench to make room
for her. She took one look at him, seemed to recognize him from the train,
folded her arms, and firmly turned her back on him.
The roll call continued. Harry watched Lupin, Pettigrew, and his father
join Lily and Sirius at the Gryffindor table. At last, when only a dozen
students remained to be sorted, Professor McGonagall called Snape.
Harry walked with him to the stool, watched him place the hat upon his
head. “Slytherin!” cried the Sorting Hat.
And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the Hall, away from
Lily, to where the Slytherins were cheering him, to where Lucius Malfoy, a
prefect badge gleaming upon his chest, patted Snape on the back as he sat
down beside him. . . .

And the scene changed. . . .
Lily and Snape were walking across the castle courtyard, evidently
arguing. Harry hurried to catch up with them, to listen in. As he reached
them, he realized how much taller they both were: A few years seemed to
have passed since their Sorting.
“. . . thought we were supposed to be friends?” Snape was saying. “Best
friends?”

“We are, Sev, but I don’t like some of the people you’re hanging round
with! I’m sorry, but I detest Avery and Mulciber! Mulciber! What do you
see in him, Sev, he’s creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary
Macdonald the other day?”
Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it, looking up into the thin,
sallow face.

“That was nothing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh, that’s all —”
“It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny —”
“What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up to?” demanded Snape.
His color rose again as he said it, unable, it seemed, to hold in his
resentment.

“What’s Potter got to do with anything?” said Lily.
“They sneak out at night. There’s something weird about that Lupin.
Where does he keep going?”
“He’s ill,” said Lily. “They say he’s ill —”
“Every month at the full moon?” said Snape.
“I know your theory,” said Lily, and she sounded cold. “Why are you so
obsessed with them anyway? Why do you care what they’re doing at
night?”

“I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful as everyone seems
to think they are.”
The intensity of his gaze made her blush.
“They don’t use Dark Magic, though.” She dropped her voice. “And
you’re being really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other night. You
went sneaking down that tunnel by the Whomping Willow, and James
Potter saved you from whatever’s down there —”
Snape’s whole face contorted and he spluttered, “Saved? Saved? You
think he was playing the hero? He was saving his neck and his friends’ too!
You’re not going to — I won’t let you —”
“Let me? Let me?”

Lily’s bright green eyes were slits. Snape backtracked at once.
“I didn’t mean — I just don’t want to see you made a fool of — He
fancies you, James Potter fancies you!” The words seemed wrenched from
him against his will. “And he’s not . . . everyone thinks . . . big Quidditch
hero —” Snape’s bitterness and dislike were rendering him incoherent, and
Lily’s eyebrows were traveling farther and farther up her forehead.
“I know James Potter’s an arrogant toerag,” she said, cutting across
Snape. “I don’t need you to tell me that. But Mulciber’s and Avery’s idea of
humor is just evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t understand how you can be friends with
them.”

Harry doubted that Snape had even heard her strictures on Mulciber and
Avery. The moment she had insulted James Potter, his whole body had
relaxed, and as they walked away there was a new spring in Snape’s
step. . . .
And the scene dissolved. . . .
Harry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall after sitting his O.W.L.
in Defense Against the Dark Arts, watched as he wandered away from the
castle and strayed inadvertently close to the place beneath the beech tree
where James, Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew sat together. But Harry kept his
distance this time, because he knew what happened after James had hoisted
Severus into the air and taunted him; he knew what had been done and said,
and it gave him no pleasure to hear it again . . . He watched as Lily joined
the group and went to Snape’s defense. Distantly he heard Snape shout at
her in his humiliation and his fury, the unforgivable word: “Mudblood.”
The scene changed. . . .

“I’m sorry.”
“I’m not interested.”
“I’m sorry!”
“Save your breath.”
It was nighttime. Lily, who was wearing a dressing gown, stood with her
arms folded in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady, at the entrance to
Gryffindor Tower.
“I only came out because Mary told me you were threatening to sleep
here.”

“I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you Mudblood, it just
—”
“Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s too late. I’ve made
excuses for you for years. None of my friends can understand why I even
talk to you. You and your precious little Death Eater friends — you see, you
don’t even deny it! You don’t even deny that’s what you’re all aiming to be!
You can’t wait to join You-Know-Who, can you?”
He opened his mouth, but closed it without speaking.
“I can’t pretend anymore. You’ve chosen your way, I’ve chosen mine.”
“No — listen, I didn’t mean —”
“— to call me Mudblood? But you call everyone of my birth Mudblood,
Severus. Why should I be any different?”

He struggled on the verge of speech, but with a contemptuous look she
turned and climbed back through the portrait hole. . . .
The corridor dissolved, and the scene took a little longer to re-form:
Harry seemed to fly through shifting shapes and colors until his
surroundings solidified again and he stood on a hilltop, forlorn and cold in
the darkness, the wind whistling through the branches of a few leafless
trees. The adult Snape was panting, turning on the spot, his wand gripped
tightly in his hand, waiting for something or for someone  .  .  . His fear
infected Harry too, even though he knew that he could not be harmed, and
he looked over his shoulder, wondering what it was that Snape was waiting
for —

Then a blinding, jagged jet of white light flew through the air: Harry
thought of lightning, but Snape had dropped to his knees and his wand had
flown out of his hand.
“Don’t kill me!”
“That was not my intention.”
Any sound of Dumbledore Apparating had been drowned by the sound of
the wind in the branches. He stood before Snape with his robes whipping
around him, and his face was illuminated from below in the light cast by his
wand.

“Well, Severus? What message does Lord Voldemort have for me?”
“No — no message — I’m here on my own account!”
Snape was wringing his hands: He looked a little mad, with his straggling
black hair flying around him.
“I — I come with a warning — no, a request — please —”
Dumbledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and branches still flew
through the night air around them, silence fell on the spot where he and
Snape faced each other.

“What request could a Death Eater make of me?”
“The — the prophecy . . . the prediction . . . Trelawney . . .”
“Ah, yes,” said Dumbledore. “How much did you relay to Lord
Voldemort?”

“Everything — everything I heard!” said Snape. “That is why — it is for
that reason — he thinks it means Lily Evans!”
“The prophecy did not refer to a woman,” said Dumbledore. “It spoke of
a boy born at the end of July —”
“You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, he is going to hunt
her down — kill them all —”
“If she means so much to you,” said Dumbledore, “surely Lord
Voldemort will spare her? Could you not ask for mercy for the mother, in
exchange for the son?”
“I have — I have asked him —”

“You disgust me,” said Dumbledore, and Harry had never heard so much
contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little. “You do not care,
then, about the deaths of her husband and child? They can die, as long as
you have what you want?”
Snape said nothing, but merely looked up at Dumbledore.
“Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her — them — safe. Please.”
“And what will you give me in return, Severus?”
“In — in return?” Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and Harry expected him
to protest, but after a long moment he said, “Anything.”
The hilltop faded, and Harry stood in Dumbledore’s office, and
something was making a terrible sound, like a wounded animal. Snape was
slumped forward in a chair and Dumbledore was standing over him,
looking grim. After a moment or two, Snape raised his face, and he looked
like a man who had lived a hundred years of misery since leaving the wild
hilltop.

“I thought . . . you were going . . . to keep her . . . safe. . . .”
“She and James put their faith in the wrong person,” said Dumbledore.
“Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t you hoping that Lord Voldemort would
spare her?”
Snape’s breathing was shallow.
“Her boy survives,” said Dumbledore.

With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flick off an irksome fly.
“Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes. You remember the
shape and color of Lily Evans’s eyes, I am sure?”
“DON’T!” bellowed Snape. “Gone . . . dead . . .”
“Is this remorse, Severus?”
“I wish . . . I wish I were dead. . . .”
“And what use would that be to anyone?” said Dumbledore coldly. “If
you loved Lily Evans, if you truly loved her, then your way forward is
clear.”
Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and Dumbledore’s words
appeared to take a long time to reach him.
“What — what do you mean?”
“You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me
protect Lily’s son.”
“He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone —”
“The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will be in terrible danger
when he does.”

There was a long pause, and slowly Snape regained control of himself,
mastered his own breathing. At last he said, “Very well. Very well. But
never — never tell, Dumbledore! This must be between us! Swear it! I
cannot bear . . . especially Potter’s son . . . I want your word!”
“My word, Severus, that I shall never reveal the best of you?”
Dumbledore sighed, looking down into Snape’s ferocious, anguished face.
“If you insist . . .”

The office dissolved but re-formed instantly. Snape was pacing up and
down in front of Dumbledore.
“— mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined rule-breaker, delighted
to find himself famous, attention-seeking and impertinent —”
“You see what you expect to see, Severus,” said Dumbledore, without
raising his eyes from a copy of Transfiguration Today. “Other teachers
report that the boy is modest, likable, and reasonably talented. Personally, I
find him an engaging child.”

Dumbledore turned a page, and said, without looking up, “Keep an eye
on Quirrell, won’t you?”
A whirl of color, and now everything darkened, and Snape and
Dumbledore stood a little apart in the entrance hall, while the last stragglers
from the Yule Ball passed them on their way to bed.
“Well?” murmured Dumbledore.
“Karkaroff’s Mark is becoming darker too. He is panicking, he fears
retribution; you know how much help he gave the Ministry after the Dark
Lord fell.” Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore’s crooked-nosed profile.
“Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark burns.”
“Does he?” said Dumbledore softly, as Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies
came giggling in from the grounds. “And are you tempted to join him?”
“No,” said Snape, his black eyes on Fleur’s and Roger’s retreating
figures. “I am not such a coward.”
“No,” agreed Dumbledore. “You are a braver man by far than Igor
Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think we Sort too soon. . . .”
He walked away, leaving Snape looking stricken. . . .

And now Harry stood in the headmaster’s office yet again. It was
nighttime, and Dumbledore sagged sideways in the thronelike chair behind
the desk, apparently semiconscious. His right hand dangled over the side,
blackened and burned. Snape was muttering incantations, pointing his wand
at the wrist of the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a goblet full of
thick golden potion down Dumbledore’s throat. After a moment or two,
Dumbledore’s eyelids fluttered and opened.

“Why,” said Snape, without preamble, “why did you put on that ring? It
carries a curse, surely you realized that. Why even touch it?”
Marvolo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk before Dumbledore. It was
cracked; the sword of Gryffindor lay beside it.
Dumbledore grimaced.

“I . . . was a fool. Sorely tempted . . .”
“Tempted by what?”
Dumbledore did not answer.
“It is a miracle you managed to return here!” Snape sounded furious.
“That ring carried a curse of extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can
hope for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time being —”
Dumbledore raised his blackened, useless hand, and examined it with the
expression of one being shown an interesting curio.

“You have done very well, Severus. How long do you think I have?”
Dumbledore’s tone was conversational; he might have been asking for a
weather forecast. Snape hesitated, and then said, “I cannot tell. Maybe a
year. There is no halting such a spell forever. It will spread eventually, it is
the sort of curse that strengthens over time.”
Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live seemed
a matter of little or no concern to him.

“I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Severus.”
“If you had only summoned me a little earlier, I might have been able to
do more, buy you more time!” said Snape furiously. He looked down at the
broken ring and the sword. “Did you think that breaking the ring would
break the curse?”

“Something like that  .  .  . I was delirious, no doubt  .  .  .  .” said
Dumbledore. With an effort he straightened himself in his chair. “Well,
really, this makes matters much more straightforward.”
Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumbledore smiled.
“I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around me. His plan to
have the poor Malfoy boy murder me.”

Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often occupied, across the desk
from Dumbledore. Harry could tell that he wanted to say more on the
subject of Dumbledore’s cursed hand, but the other held it up in polite
refusal to discuss the matter further. Scowling, Snape said, “The Dark Lord
does not expect Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for Lucius’s
recent failures. Slow torture for Draco’s parents, while they watch him fail
and pay the price.”

“In short, the boy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him as
surely as I have,” said Dumbledore. “Now, I should have thought the
natural successor to the job, once Draco fails, is yourself?”
There was a short pause.

“That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan.”
“Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future when he will not
need a spy at Hogwarts?”
“He believes the school will soon be in his grasp, yes.”
“And if it does fall into his grasp,” said Dumbledore, almost, it seemed,
as an aside, “I have your word that you will do all in your power to protect
the students of Hogwarts?”
Snape gave a stiff nod.

“Good. Now then. Your first priority will be to discover what Draco is up
to. A frightened teenage boy is a danger to others as well as to himself.
Offer him help and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you —”
“— much less since his father has lost favor. Draco blames me, he thinks
I have usurped Lucius’s position.”
“All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than for accidental
victims of whatever schemes might occur to the boy. Ultimately, of course,
there is only one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord
Voldemort’s wrath.”

Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic as he asked, “Are
you intending to let him kill you?”
“Certainly not. You must kill me.”
There was a long silence, broken only by an odd clicking noise. Fawkes
the phoenix was gnawing a bit of cuttlebone.

“Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his voice heavy with
irony. “Or would you like a few moments to compose an epitaph?”
“Oh, not quite yet,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I daresay the moment
will present itself in due course. Given what has happened tonight,” he
indicated his withered hand, “we can be sure that it will happen within a
year.”

“If you don’t mind dying,” said Snape roughly, “why not let Draco do
it?”
“That boy’s soul is not yet so damaged,” said Dumbledore. “I would not
have it ripped apart on my account.”
“And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine?”

“You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid
pain and humiliation,” said Dumbledore. “I ask this one great favor of you,
Severus, because death is coming for me as surely as the Chudley Cannons
will finish bottom of this year’s league. I confess I should prefer a quick,
painless exit to the protracted and messy affair it will be if, for instance,
Greyback is involved — I hear Voldemort has recruited him? Or dear
Bellatrix, who likes to play with her food before she eats it.”

His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as they had frequently
pierced Harry, as though the soul they discussed was visible to him. At last
Snape gave another curt nod.
Dumbledore seemed satisfied.
“Thank you, Severus . . .”

The office disappeared, and now Snape and Dumbledore were strolling
together in the deserted castle grounds by twilight.
“What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings you are closeted
together?” Snape asked abruptly.
Dumbledore looked weary.

“Why? You aren’t trying to give him more detentions, Severus? The boy
will soon have spent more time in detention than out.”
“He is his father over again —”
“In looks, perhaps, but his deepest nature is much more like his mother’s.
I spend time with Harry because I have things to discuss with him,
information I must give him before it is too late.”

“Information,” repeated Snape. “You trust him . . . you do not trust me.”
“It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know, limited time. It is
essential that I give the boy enough information for him to do what he
needs to do.”

“And why may I not have the same information?”
“I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket, particularly not a
basket that spends so much time dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort.”
“Which I do on your orders!”

“And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I underestimate the
constant danger in which you place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort
what appears to be valuable information while withholding the essentials is
a job I would entrust to nobody but you.”

“Yet you confide much more in a boy who is incapable of Occlumency,
whose magic is mediocre, and who has a direct connection into the Dark
Lord’s mind!”
“Voldemort fears that connection,” said Dumbledore. “Not so long ago he
had one small taste of what truly sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was
pain such as he has never experienced. He will not try to possess Harry
again, I am sure of it. Not in that way.”
“I don’t understand.”

“Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear close contact with a
soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue on frozen steel, like flesh in flame —”
“Souls? We were talking of minds!”
“In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort, to speak of one is to speak of
the other.”

Dumbledore glanced around to make sure that they were alone. They
were close by the Forbidden Forest now, but there was no sign of anyone
near them.
“After you have killed me, Severus —”
“You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that small service of
me!” snarled Snape, and real anger flared in the thin face now. “You take a
great deal for granted, Dumbledore! Perhaps I have changed my mind!”
“You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are talking about
services you owe me, I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on our
young Slytherin friend?”
Snape looked angry, mutinous. Dumbledore sighed.

“Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not
complain that I have no confidence in you. . . .”
They were back in Dumbledore’s office, the windows dark, and Fawkes
sat silent as Snape sat quite still, as Dumbledore walked around him,
talking.

“Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not until it is necessary,
otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must be done?”
“But what must he do?”
“That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely, Severus. There will
come a time — after my death — do not argue, do not interrupt! There will
come a time when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of his
snake.”

“For Nagini?” Snape looked astonished.
“Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort stops sending that
snake forth to do his bidding, but keeps it safe beside him under magical
protection, then, I think, it will be safe to tell Harry.”
“Tell him what?”

Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes.
“Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill him, when Lily
cast her own life between them as a shield, the Killing Curse rebounded
upon Lord Voldemort, and a fragment of Voldemort’s soul was blasted apart
from the whole, and latched itself onto the only living soul left in that
collapsing building. Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry, and it is that
which gives him the power of speech with snakes, and a connection with
Lord Voldemort’s mind that he has never understood. And while that
fragment of soul, unmissed by Voldemort, remains attached to and protected
by Harry, Lord Voldemort cannot die.”

Harry seemed to be watching the two men from one end of a long tunnel,
they were so far away from him, their voices echoing strangely in his ears.
“So the boy . . . the boy must die?” asked Snape quite calmly.
“And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is essential.”
Another long silence. Then Snape said, “I thought . . . all these years . . .
that we were protecting him for her. For Lily.”
“We have protected him because it has been essential to teach him, to
raise him, to let him try his strength,” said Dumbledore, his eyes still tight
shut. “Meanwhile, the connection between them grows ever stronger, a
parasitic growth: Sometimes I have thought he suspects it himself. If I know
him, he will have arranged matters so that when he does set out to meet his
death, it will truly mean the end of Voldemort.”

Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.
“You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment?”
“Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and women have you
watched die?”
“Lately, only those whom I could not save,” said Snape. He stood up.
“You have used me.”
“Meaning?”

“I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mortal danger for
you. Everything was supposed to be to keep Lily Potter’s son safe. Now
you tell me you have been raising him like a pig for slaughter —”
“But this is touching, Severus,” said Dumbledore seriously. “Have you
grown to care for the boy, after all?”
“For him?” shouted Snape. “Expecto Patronum!”

From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe: She landed on the office
floor, bounded once across the office, and soared out of the window.
Dumbledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned
back to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears.
“After all this time?”
“Always,” said Snape.

And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking to the portrait of
Dumbledore behind his desk.
“You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry’s departure
from his aunt and uncle’s,” said Dumbledore. “Not to do so will raise
suspicion, when Voldemort believes you so well informed. However, you
must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought to ensure Harry’s safety.
Try Confunding Mundungus Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to
take part in the chase, be sure to act your part convincingly  .  .  . I am
counting upon you to remain in Lord Voldemort’s good books as long as
possible, or Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows. . . .”
Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an unfamiliar tavern,
Mundungus’s face looking curiously blank, Snape frowning in
concentration.

“You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix,” Snape murmured, “that
they use decoys. Polyjuice Potion. Identical Potters. It is the only thing that
might work. You will forget that I have suggested this. You will present it as
your own idea. You understand?”

“I understand,” murmured Mundungus, his eyes unfocused. . . .
Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a broomstick through a clear
dark night: He was accompanied by other hooded Death Eaters, and ahead
were Lupin and a Harry who was really George. . . . A Death Eater moved
ahead of Snape and raised his wand, pointing it directly at Lupin’s back —
“Sectumsempra!” shouted Snape.
But the spell, intended for the Death Eater’s wand hand, missed and hit
George instead —
And next, Snape was kneeling in Sirius’s old bedroom. Tears were
dripping from the end of his hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily.
The second page carried only a few words:
could ever have been friends with Gellert Grindelwald. I think her
mind’s going, personally!

Lots of love,
Snape took the page bearing Lily’s signature, and her love, and tucked it
inside his robes. Then he ripped in two the photograph he was also holding,
so that he kept the part from which Lily laughed, throwing the portion
showing James and Harry back onto the floor, under the chest of
drawers. . . .

And now Snape stood again in the headmaster’s study as Phineas
Nigellus came hurrying into his portrait.
“Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean! The Mudblood
—”

“Do not use that word!”
“— the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she opened her bag
and I heard her!”
“Good. Very good!” cried the portrait of Dumbledore behind the
headmaster’s chair. “Now, Severus, the sword! Do not forget that it must be
taken under conditions of need and valor — and he must not know that you
give it! If Voldemort should read Harry’s mind and see you acting for him
—”

“I know,” said Snape curtly. He approached the portrait of Dumbledore
and pulled at its side. It swung forward, revealing a hidden cavity behind it
from which he took the sword of Gryffindor.
“And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so important to give Potter
the sword?” said Snape as he swung a traveling cloak over his robes.
“No, I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore’s portrait. “He will know what
to do with it. And Severus, be very careful, they may not take kindly to
your appearance after George Weasley’s mishap —”
Snape turned at the door.

“Don’t worry, Dumbledore,” he said coolly. “I have a plan. . . .”
And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the Pensieve, and
moments later he lay on the carpeted floor in exactly the same room: Snape
might just have closed the door.


CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR

THE FOREST AGAIN

inally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty carpet of
the office where he had once thought he was learning the secrets of
victory, Harry understood at last that he was not supposed to survive. His
job was to walk calmly into Death’s welcoming arms. Along the way, he
was to dispose of Voldemort’s remaining links to life, so that when at last he
flung himself across Voldemort’s path, and did not raise a wand to defend
himself, the end would be clean, and the job that ought to have been done in
Godric’s Hollow would be finished: Neither would live, neither could
survive.

He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How strange that in his
dread of death, it pumped all the harder, valiantly keeping him alive. But it
would have to stop, and soon. Its beats were numbered. How many would
there be time for, as he rose and walked through the castle for the last time,
out into the grounds and into the forest?
Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that funeral drum
pounding inside him. Would it hurt to die? All those times he had thought
that it was about to happen and escaped, he had never really thought of the
thing itself: His will to live had always been so much stronger than his fear
of death. Yet it did not occur to him now to try to escape, to outrun
Voldemort. It was over, he knew it, and all that was left was the thing itself:
dying.

If he could only have died on that summer’s night when he had left
number four, Privet Drive, for the last time, when the noble phoenix-feather
wand had saved him! If he could only have died like Hedwig, so quickly he
would not have known it had happened! Or if he could have launched
himself in front of a wand to save someone he loved. . . . He envied even
his parents’ deaths now. This cold-blooded walk to his own destruction
would require a different kind of bravery. He felt his fingers trembling
slightly and made an effort to control them, although no one could see him;
the portraits on the walls were all empty.

Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt more alive and
more aware of his own living body than ever before. Why had he never
appreciated what a miracle he was, brain and nerve and bounding heart? It
would all be gone . . . or at least, he would be gone from it. His breath came
slow and deep, and his mouth and throat were completely dry, but so were
his eyes.

Dumbledore’s betrayal was almost nothing. Of course there had been a
bigger plan; Harry had simply been too foolish to see it, he realized that
now. He had never questioned his own assumption that Dumbledore wanted
him alive. Now he saw that his life span had always been determined by
how long it took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumbledore had passed the
job of destroying them to him, and obediently he had continued to chip
away at the bonds tying not only Voldemort, but himself, to life! How neat,
how elegant, not to waste any more lives, but to give the dangerous task to
the boy who had already been marked for slaughter, and whose death would
not be a calamity, but another blow against Voldemort.

And Dumbledore had known that Harry would not duck out, that he
would keep going to the end, even though it was his end, because he had
taken trouble to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dumbledore knew, as
Voldemort knew, that Harry would not let anyone else die for him now that
he had discovered it was in his power to stop it. The images of Fred, Lupin,
and Tonks lying dead in the Great Hall forced their way back into his
mind’s eye, and for a moment he could hardly breathe: Death was
impatient. . . .

But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had failed: The snake
survived. One Horcrux remained to bind Voldemort to the earth, even after
Harry had been killed. True, that would mean an easier job for somebody.
He wondered who would do it . . . Ron and Hermione would know what
needed to be done, of course. . . . That would have been why Dumbledore
wanted him to confide in two others  .  .  . so that if he fulfilled his true
destiny a little early, they could carry on. . . .
Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered against the hard
surface of the incontrovertible truth, which was that he must die. I must die.
It must end.

Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-off country; he felt
as though he had parted from them long ago. There would be no good-byes
and no explanations, he was determined of that. This was a journey they
could not take together, and the attempts they would make to stop him
would waste valuable time. He looked down at the battered gold watch he
had received on his seventeenth birthday. Nearly half of the hour allotted by
Voldemort for his surrender had elapsed.
He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ribs like a frantic bird.
Perhaps it knew it had little time left, perhaps it was determined to fulfill a
lifetime’s beats before the end. He did not look back as he closed the office
door.

The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through it alone, as if he
had already died. The portrait people were still missing from their frames;
the whole place was eerily still, as if all its remaining lifeblood were
concentrated in the Great Hall where the dead and the mourners were
crammed.

Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak over himself and descended through
the floors, at last walking down the marble staircase into the entrance hall.
Perhaps some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, to be seen, to be stopped,
but the Cloak was, as ever, impenetrable, perfect, and he reached the front
doors easily.

Then Neville nearly walked into him. He was one half of a pair that was
carrying a body in from the grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another
dull blow to his stomach: Colin Creevey, though underage, must have
sneaked back just as Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had done. He was tiny in
death.
“You know what? I can manage him alone, Neville,” said Oliver Wood,
and he heaved Colin over his shoulder in a fireman’s lift and carried him
into the Great Hall.
Neville leaned against the door frame for a moment and wiped his
forehead with the back of his hand. He looked like an old man. Then he set
off down the steps again into the darkness to recover more bodies.
Harry took one glance back at the entrance of the Great Hall. People
were moving around, trying to comfort each other, drinking, kneeling
beside the dead, but he could not see any of the people he loved, no hint of
Hermione, Ron, Ginny, or any of the other Weasleys, no Luna. He felt he
would have given all the time remaining to him for just one last look at
them; but then, would he ever have the strength to stop looking? It was
better like this.

He moved down the steps and out into the darkness. It was nearly four in
the morning, and the deathly stillness of the grounds felt as though they
were holding their breath, waiting to see whether he could do what he must.
Harry moved toward Neville, who was bending over another body.
“Neville.”

“Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!”
Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out of
nowhere, born out of a desire to make absolutely sure.
“Where are you going, alone?” Neville asked suspiciously.
“It’s all part of the plan,” said Harry. “There’s something I’ve got to do.
Listen — Neville —”
“Harry!” Neville looked suddenly scared. “Harry, you’re not thinking of
handing yourself over?”
“No,” Harry lied easily. “’Course not  .  .  . this is something else. But I
might be out of sight for a while. You know Voldemort’s snake, Neville?
He’s got a huge snake. . . . Calls it Nagini . . .”
“I’ve heard, yeah. . . . What about it?”
“It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that, but just in case they
—”

The awfulness of that possibility smothered him for a moment, made it
impossible to keep talking. But he pulled himself together again: This was
crucial, he must be like Dumbledore, keep a cool head, make sure there
were backups, others to carry on. Dumbledore had died knowing that three
people still knew about the Horcruxes; now Neville would take Harry’s
place: There would still be three in the secret.
“Just in case they’re — busy — and you get the chance —”
“Kill the snake?”
“Kill the snake,” Harry repeated.
“All right, Harry. You’re okay, are you?”
“I’m fine. Thanks, Neville.”
But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move on.
“We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know that?”
“Yeah, I —”

The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the sentence; he could
not go on. Neville did not seem to find it strange. He patted Harry on the
shoulder, released him, and walked away to look for more bodies.
Harry swung the Cloak back over himself and walked on. Someone else
was moving not far away, stooping over another prone figure on the ground.
He was feet away from her when he realized it was Ginny.
He stopped in his tracks. She was crouching over a girl who was
whispering for her mother.

“It’s all right,” Ginny was saying. “It’s okay. We’re going to get you
inside.”
“But I want to go home,” whispered the girl. “I don’t want to fight
anymore!”
“I know,” said Ginny, and her voice broke. “It’s going to be all right.”
Ripples of cold undulated over Harry’s skin. He wanted to shout out to
the night, he wanted Ginny to know that he was there, he wanted her to
know where he was going. He wanted to be stopped, to be dragged back, to
be sent back home. . . .
But he was home. Hogwarts was the first and best home he had known.
He and Voldemort and Snape, the abandoned boys, had all found home
here. . . .

Ginny was kneeling beside the injured girl now, holding her hand. With a
huge effort Harry forced himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around
as he passed, and wondered whether she had sensed someone walking
nearby, but he did not speak, and he did not look back.
Hagrid’s hut loomed out of the darkness. There were no lights, no sound
of Fang scrabbling at the door, his bark booming in welcome. All those
visits to Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire, and rock
cakes and giant grubs, and his great bearded face, and Ron vomiting slugs,
and Hermione helping him save Norbert . . .

He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the forest, and he stopped.
A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; he could feel their
chill, and he was not sure he would be able to pass safely through it. He had
no strength left for a Patronus. He could no longer control his own
trembling. It was not, after all, so easy to die. Every second he breathed, the
smell of the grass, the cool air on his face, was so precious: To think that
people had years and years, time to waste, so much time it dragged, and he
was clinging to each second. At the same time he thought that he would not
be able to go on, and knew that he must. The long game was ended, the
Snitch had been caught, it was time to leave the air. . . .
The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumbled for a moment with the pouch
at his neck and he pulled it out.
I open at the close.

Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now that he wanted time to
move as slowly as possible, it seemed to have sped up, and understanding
was coming so fast it seemed to have bypassed thought. This was the close.
This was the moment.
He pressed the golden metal to his lips and whispered, “I am about to
die.”

The metal shell broke open. He lowered his shaking hand, raised Draco’s
wand beneath the Cloak, and murmured, “Lumos.”
The black stone with its jagged crack running down the center sat in the
two halves of the Snitch. The Resurrection Stone had cracked down the
vertical line representing the Elder Wand. The triangle and circle
representing the Cloak and the stone were still discernible.
And again Harry understood without having to think. It did not matter
about bringing them back, for he was about to join them. He was not really
fetching them: They were fetching him.

He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times.
He knew it had happened, because he heard slight movements around
him that suggested frail bodies shifting their footing on the earthy, twigstrewn ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He opened his eyes
and looked around.

They were neither ghost nor truly flesh, he could see that. They
resembled most closely the Riddle that had escaped from the diary so long
ago, and he had been memory made nearly solid. Less substantial than
living bodies, but much more than ghosts, they moved toward him, and on
each face, there was the same loving smile.
James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was wearing the clothes
in which he had died, and his hair was untidy and ruffled, and his glasses
were a little lopsided, like Mr. Weasley’s.

Sirius was tall and handsome, and younger by far than Harry had seen
him in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin
on his face.

Lupin was younger too, and much less shabby, and his hair was thicker
and darker. He looked happy to be back in this familiar place, scene of so
many adolescent wanderings.
Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew
close to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as
though she would never be able to look at him enough.

“You’ve been so brave.”
He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he thought that he
would like to stand and look at her forever, and that would be enough.
“You are nearly there,” said James. “Very close. We are . . . so proud of
you.”
“Does it hurt?”

The childish question had fallen from Harry’s lips before he could stop it.
“Dying? Not at all,” said Sirius. “Quicker and easier than falling asleep.”
“And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over,” said Lupin.
“I didn’t want you to die,” Harry said. These words came without his
volition. “Any of you. I’m sorry —”

He addressed Lupin more than any of them, beseeching him.
“— right after you’d had your son . . . Remus, I’m sorry —”
“I am sorry too,” said Lupin. “Sorry I will never know him . . . but he
will know why I died and I hope he will understand. I was trying to make a
world in which he could live a happier life.”
A chilly breeze that seemed to emanate from the heart of the forest lifted
the hair at Harry’s brow. He knew that they would not tell him to go, that it
would have to be his decision.
“You’ll stay with me?”

“Until the very end,” said James.
“They won’t be able to see you?” asked Harry.
“We are part of you,” said Sirius. “Invisible to anyone else.”
Harry looked at his mother.
“Stay close to me,” he said quietly.

And he set off. The dementors’ chill did not overcome him; he passed
through it with his companions, and they acted like Patronuses to him, and
together they marched through the old trees that grew closely together, their
branches tangled, their roots gnarled and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched
the Cloak tightly around him in the darkness, traveling deeper and deeper
into the forest, with no idea where exactly Voldemort was, but sure that he
would find him. Beside him, making scarcely a sound, walked James,
Sirius, Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his courage, and the reason
he was able to keep putting one foot in front of the other.

His body and mind felt oddly disconnected now, his limbs working
without conscious instruction, as if he were passenger, not driver, in the
body he was about to leave. The dead who walked beside him through the
forest were much more real to him now than the living back at the castle:
Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts
as he stumbled and slipped toward the end of his life, toward Voldemort. . . .
A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had stirred close by.
Harry stopped under the Cloak, peering around, listening, and his mother
and father, Lupin and Sirius stopped too.

“Someone there,” came a rough whisper close at hand. “He’s got an
Invisibility Cloak. Could it be — ?”
Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree: Their wands flared, and
Harry saw Yaxley and Dolohov peering into the darkness, directly at the
place Harry, his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood. Apparently
they could not see anything.
“Definitely heard something,” said Yaxley. “Animal, d’you reckon?”
“That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunch of stuff in here,” said
Dolohov, glancing over his shoulder.
Yaxley looked down at his watch.

“Time’s nearly up. Potter’s had his hour. He’s not coming.”
“And he was sure he’d come! He won’t be happy.”
“Better go back,” said Yaxley. “Find out what the plan is now.”
He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the forest. Harry
followed them, knowing that they would lead him exactly where he wanted
to go. He glanced sideways, and his mother smiled at him, and his father
nodded encouragement.

They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw light ahead, and
Yaxley and Dolohov stepped out into a clearing that Harry knew had been
the place where the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants of his
vast web were there still, but the swarm of descendants he had spawned had
been driven out by the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause.

A fire burned in the middle of the clearing, and its flickering light fell
over a crowd of completely silent, watchful Death Eaters. Some of them
were still masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two giants sat on
the outskirts of the group, casting massive shadows over the scene, their
faces cruel, rough-hewn like rock. Harry saw Fenrir, skulking, chewing his
long nails; the great blond Rowle was dabbing at his bleeding lip. He saw
Lucius Malfoy, who looked defeated and terrified, and Narcissa, whose
eyes were sunken and full of apprehension.

Every eye was fixed upon Voldemort, who stood with his head bowed,
and his white hands folded over the Elder Wand in front of him. He might
have been praying, or else counting silently in his mind, and Harry, standing
still on the edge of the scene, thought absurdly of a child counting in a
game of hide-and-seek. Behind his head, still swirling and coiling, the great
snake Nagini floated in her glittering, charmed cage, like a monstrous halo.
When Dolohov and Yaxley rejoined the circle, Voldemort looked up.
“No sign of him, my Lord,” said Dolohov.

Voldemort’s expression did not change. The red eyes seemed to burn in
the firelight. Slowly he drew the Elder Wand between his long fingers.
“My Lord —”
Bellatrix had spoken: She sat closest to Voldemort, disheveled, her face a
little bloody but otherwise unharmed.
Voldemort raised his hand to silence her, and she did not speak another
word, but eyed him in worshipful fascination.

“I thought he would come,” said Voldemort in his high, clear voice, his
eyes on the leaping flames. “I expected him to come.”
Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry, whose heart was now
throwing itself against his ribs as though determined to escape the body he
was about to cast aside. His hands were sweating as he pulled off the
Invisibility Cloak and stuffed it beneath his robes, with his wand. He did
not want to be tempted to fight.

“I was, it seems . . . mistaken,” said Voldemort.
“You weren’t.”
Harry said it as loudly as he could, with all the force he could muster: He
did not want to sound afraid. The Resurrection Stone slipped from between
his numb fingers, and out of the corner of his eyes he saw his parents,
Sirius, and Lupin vanish as he stepped forward into the firelight. At that
moment he felt that nobody mattered but Voldemort. It was just the two of
them.

The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The giants roared as the
Death Eaters rose together, and there were many cries, gasps, even laughter.
Voldemort had frozen where he stood, but his red eyes had found Harry, and
he stared as Harry moved toward him, with nothing but the fire between
them.

Then a voice yelled: “HARRY! NO!”
He turned: Hagrid was bound and trussed, tied to a tree nearby. His
massive body shook the branches overhead as he struggled, desperate.
“NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH — ?”
“QUIET!” shouted Rowle, and with a flick of his wand Hagrid was
silenced.

Bellatrix, who had leapt to her feet, was looking eagerly from Voldemort
to Harry, her breast heaving. The only things that moved were the flames
and the snake, coiling and uncoiling in the glittering cage behind
Voldemort’s head.
Harry could feel his wand against his chest, but he made no attempt to
draw it. He knew that the snake was too well protected, knew that if he
managed to point the wand at Nagini, fifty curses would hit him first. And
still, Voldemort and Harry looked at each other, and now Voldemort tilted
his head a little to the side, considering the boy standing before him, and a
singularly mirthless smile curled the lipless mouth.

“Harry Potter,” he said very softly. His voice might have been part of the
spitting fire. “The Boy Who Lived.”
None of the Death Eaters moved. They were waiting: Everything was
waiting. Hagrid was struggling, and Bellatrix was panting, and Harry
thought inexplicably of Ginny, and her blazing look, and the feel of her lips
on his —

Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still tilted to one side, like a
curious child, wondering what would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked
back into the red eyes, and wanted it to happen now, quickly, while he could
still stand, before he lost control, before he betrayed fear —
He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light, and everything was
gone.


CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE

KING’S CROSS

e lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was perfectly alone.
Nobody was watching. Nobody else was there. He was not perfectly
sure that he was there himself.
A long time later, or maybe no time at all, it came to him that he must
exist, must be more than disembodied thought, because he was lying,
definitely lying, on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of touch, and
the thing against which he lay existed too.

Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion, Harry became
conscious that he was naked. Convinced as he was of his total solitude, this
did not concern him, but it did intrigue him slightly. He wondered whether,
as he could feel, he would be able to see. In opening them, he discovered
that he had eyes.

He lay in a bright mist, though it was not like mist he had ever
experienced before. His surroundings were not hidden by cloudy vapor;
rather the cloudy vapor had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on
which he lay seemed to be white, neither warm nor cold, but simply there, a
flat, blank something on which to be.
He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He was not
wearing glasses anymore.

Then a noise reached him through the unformed nothingness that
surrounded him: the small soft thumpings of something that flapped, flailed,
and struggled. It was a pitiful noise, yet also slightly indecent. He had the
uncomfortable feeling that he was eavesdropping on something furtive,
shameful.

For the first time, he wished he were clothed.
Barely had the wish formed in his head than robes appeared a short
distance away. He took them and pulled them on: They were soft, clean,
and warm. It was extraordinary how they had appeared, just like that, the
moment he had wanted them. . . .

He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great Room of
Requirement? The longer he looked, the more there was to see. A great
domed glass roof glittered high above him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a
palace. All was hushed and still, except for those odd thumping and
whimpering noises coming from somewhere close by in the mist. . . .
Harry turned slowly on the spot, and his surroundings seemed to invent
themselves before his eyes. A wide-open space, bright and clean, a hall
larger by far than the Great Hall, with that clear, domed glass ceiling. It was
quite empty. He was the only person there, except for —

He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was making the noises. It had
the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and
rough, flayed-looking, and it lay shuddering under a seat where it had been
left, unwanted, stuffed out of sight, struggling for breath.
He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded though it was, he did
not want to approach it. Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer, ready to jump
back at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to touch it, yet he could
not bring himself to do it. He felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it, but
it repulsed him.

“You cannot help.”
He spun around. Albus Dumbledore was walking toward him, sprightly
and upright, wearing sweeping robes of midnight blue.
“Harry.” He spread his arms wide, and his hands were both whole and
white and undamaged. “You wonderful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us
walk.”

Stunned, Harry followed as Dumbledore strode away from where the
flayed child lay whimpering, leading him to two seats that Harry had not
previously noticed, set some distance away under that high, sparkling
ceiling. Dumbledore sat down in one of them, and Harry fell into the other,
staring at his old headmaster’s face. Dumbledore’s long silver hair and
beard, the piercingly blue eyes behind half-moon spectacles, the crooked
nose: Everything was as he had remembered it. And yet . . .
“But you’re dead,” said Harry.

“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore matter-of-factly.
“Then . . . I’m dead too?”
“Ah,” said Dumbledore, smiling still more broadly. “That is the question,
isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy, I think not.”
They looked at each other, the old man still beaming.
“Not?” repeated Harry.

“Not,” said Dumbledore.
“But . . .” Harry raised his hand instinctively toward the lightning scar. It
did not seem to be there. “But I should have died — I didn’t defend myself!
I meant to let him kill me!”
“And that,” said Dumbledore, “will, I think, have made all the
difference.”

Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumbledore like light, like fire: Harry
had never seen the man so utterly, so palpably content.
“Explain,” said Harry.
“But you already know,” said Dumbledore. He twiddled his thumbs
together.
“I let him kill me,” said Harry. “Didn’t I?”
“You did,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Go on!”
“So the part of his soul that was in me . . .”
Dumbledore nodded still more enthusiastically, urging Harry onward, a
broad smile of encouragement on his face.
“. . . has it gone?”

“Oh yes!” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he destroyed it. Your soul is whole,
and completely your own, Harry.”
“But then . . .”
Harry glanced over his shoulder to where the small, maimed creature
trembled under the chair.
“What is that, Professor?”
“Something that is beyond either of our help,” said Dumbledore.
“But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse,” Harry started again, “and
nobody died for me this time — how can I be alive?”
“I think you know,” said Dumbledore. “Think back. Remember what he
did, in his ignorance, in his greed and his cruelty.”

Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his surroundings. If it was
indeed a palace in which they sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in little
rows and bits of railing here and there, and still, he and Dumbledore and the
stunted creature under the chair were the only beings there. Then the answer
rose to his lips easily, without effort.
“He took my blood,” said Harry.

“Precisely!” said Dumbledore. “He took your blood and rebuilt his living
body with it! Your blood in his veins, Harry, Lily’s protection inside both of
you! He tethered you to life while he lives!”
“I live . . . while he lives? But I thought . . . I thought it was the other
way round! I thought we both had to die? Or is it the same thing?”
He was distracted by the whimpering and thumping of the agonized
creature behind them and glanced back at it yet again.
“Are you sure we can’t do anything?”
“There is no help possible.”

“Then explain . . . more,” said Harry, and Dumbledore smiled.
“You were the seventh Horcrux, Harry, the Horcrux he never meant to
make. He had rendered his soul so unstable that it broke apart when he
committed those acts of unspeakable evil, the murder of your parents, the
attempted killing of a child. But what escaped from that room was even less
than he knew. He left more than his body behind. He left part of himself
latched to you, the would-be victim who had survived.

“And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete, Harry! That which
Voldemort does not value, he takes no trouble to comprehend. Of houseelves and children’s tales, of love, loyalty, and innocence, Voldemort knows
and understands nothing. Nothing. That they all have a power beyond his
own, a power beyond the reach of any magic, is a truth he has never
grasped.

“He took your blood believing it would strengthen him. He took into his
body a tiny part of the enchantment your mother laid upon you when she
died for you. His body keeps her sacrifice alive, and while that enchantment
survives, so do you and so does Voldemort’s one last hope for himself.”
Dumbledore smiled at Harry, and Harry stared at him.
“And you knew this? You knew — all along?”

“I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good,” said Dumbledore
happily, and they sat in silence for what seemed like a long time, while the
creature behind them continued to whimper and tremble.
“There’s more,” said Harry. “There’s more to it. Why did my wand break
the wand he borrowed?”

“As to that, I cannot be sure.”
“Have a guess, then,” said Harry, and Dumbledore laughed.
“What you must understand, Harry, is that you and Lord Voldemort have
journeyed together into realms of magic hitherto unknown and untested.
But here is what I think happened, and it is unprecedented, and no
wandmaker could, I think, ever have predicted it or explained it to
Voldemort.

“Without meaning to, as you now know, Lord Voldemort doubled the
bond between you when he returned to a human form. A part of his soul
was still attached to yours, and, thinking to strengthen himself, he took a
part of your mother’s sacrifice into himself. If he could only have
understood the precise and terrible power of that sacrifice, he would not,
perhaps, have dared to touch your blood. . . . But then, if he had been able
to understand, he could not be Lord Voldemort, and might never have
murdered at all.

“Having ensured this two-fold connection, having wrapped your destinies
together more securely than ever two wizards were joined in history,
Voldemort proceeded to attack you with a wand that shared a core with
yours. And now something very strange happened, as we know. The cores
reacted in a way that Lord Voldemort, who never knew that your wand was
twin of his, had never expected.

“He was more afraid than you were that night, Harry. You had accepted,
even embraced, the possibility of death, something Lord Voldemort has
never been able to do. Your courage won, your wand overpowered his. And
in doing so, something happened between those wands, something that
echoed the relationship between their masters.

“I believe that your wand imbibed some of the power and qualities of
Voldemort’s wand that night, which is to say that it contained a little of
Voldemort himself. So your wand recognized him when he pursued you,
recognized a man who was both kin and mortal enemy, and it regurgitated
some of his own magic against him, magic much more powerful than
anything Lucius’s wand had ever performed. Your wand now contained the
power of your enormous courage and of Voldemort’s own deadly skill:
What chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy’s stand?”
“But if my wand was so powerful, how come Hermione was able to
break it?” asked Harry.

“My dear boy, its remarkable effects were directed only at Voldemort,
who had tampered so ill-advisedly with the deepest laws of magic. Only
toward him was that wand abnormally powerful. Otherwise it was a wand
like any other  .  .  . though a good one, I am sure,” Dumbledore finished
kindly.

Harry sat in thought for a long time, or perhaps seconds. It was very hard
to be sure of things like time, here.
“He killed me with your wand.”
“He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dumbledore corrected Harry. “I
think we can agree that you are not dead — though, of course,” he added, as
if fearing he had been discourteous, “I do not minimize your sufferings,
which I am sure were severe.”
“I feel great at the moment, though,” said Harry, looking down at his
clean, unblemished hands. “Where are we, exactly?”
“Well, I was going to ask you that,” said Dumbledore, looking around.
“Where would you say that we are?”

Until Dumbledore had asked, Harry had not known. Now, however, he
found that he had an answer ready to give.
“It looks,” he said slowly, “like King’s Cross station. Except a lot cleaner
and empty, and there are no trains as far as I can see.”
“King’s Cross station!” Dumbledore was chuckling immoderately. “Good
gracious, really?”

“Well, where do you think we are?” asked Harry, a little defensively.
“My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, your party.”
Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumbledore was being infuriating.
He glared at him, then remembered a much more pressing question than
that of their current location.
“The Deathly Hallows,” he said, and he was glad to see that the words
wiped the smile from Dumbledore’s face.

“Ah, yes,” he said. He even looked a little worried.
“Well?”
For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore, he looked less than
an old man, much less. He looked fleetingly like a small boy caught in
wrongdoing.

“Can you forgive me?” he said. “Can you forgive me for not trusting
you? For not telling you? Harry, I only feared that you would fail as I had
failed. I only dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave your
pardon, Harry. I have known, for some time now, that you are the better
man.”
“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, startled by Dumbledore’s
tone, by the sudden tears in his eyes.
“The Hallows, the Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore. “A desperate
man’s dream!”
“But they’re real!”
“Real, and dangerous, and a lure for fools,” said Dumbledore. “And I
was such a fool. But you know, don’t you? I have no secrets from you
anymore. You know.”

“What do I know?”
Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry, and tears still sparkled
in the brilliantly blue eyes.
“Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I better, ultimately, than
Voldemort?”

“Of course you were,” said Harry. “Of course — how can you ask that?
You never killed if you could avoid it!”
“True, true,” said Dumbledore, and he was like a child seeking
reassurance. “Yet I too sought a way to conquer death, Harry.”
“Not the way he did,” said Harry. After all his anger at Dumbledore, how
odd it was to sit here, beneath the high, vaulted ceiling, and defend
Dumbledore from himself. “Hallows, not Horcruxes.”
“Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore, “not Horcruxes. Precisely.”

There was a pause. The creature behind them whimpered, but Harry no
longer looked around.
“Grindelwald was looking for them too?” he asked.
Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and nodded.
“It was the thing, above all, that drew us together,” he said quietly. “Two
clever, arrogant boys with a shared obsession. He wanted to come to
Godric’s Hollow, as I am sure you have guessed, because of the grave of
Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the third brother had
died.”

“So it’s true?” asked Harry. “All of it? The Peverell brothers —”
“— were the three brothers of the tale,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Oh
yes, I think so. Whether they met Death on a lonely road . . . I think it more
likely that the Peverell brothers were simply gifted, dangerous wizards who
succeeded in creating those powerful objects. The story of them being
Death’s own Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might have sprung
up around such creations.

“The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through the ages, father to
son, mother to daughter, right down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who
was born, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s Hollow.”
Dumbledore smiled at Harry.
“Me?”

“You. You have guessed, I know, why the Cloak was in my possession on
the night your parents died. James had showed it to me just a few days
previously. It explained much of his undetected wrongdoing at school! I
could hardly believe what I was seeing. I asked to borrow it, to examine it. I
had long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows, but I could not
resist, could not help taking a closer look. . . . It was a Cloak the likes of
which I had never seen, immensely old, perfect in every respect  .  .  . and
then your father died, and I had two Hallows at last, all to myself!”
His tone was unbearably bitter.

“The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive, though,” Harry said
quickly. “Voldemort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak
couldn’t have made them curse-proof.”
“True,” sighed Dumbledore. “True.”
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak, so he prompted him.
“So you’d given up looking for the Hallows when you saw the Cloak?”
“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he forced himself to
meet Harry’s eyes. “You know what happened. You know. You cannot
despise me more than I despise myself.”
“But I don’t despise you —”

“Then you should,” said Dumbledore. He drew a deep breath. “You know
the secret of my sister’s ill health, what those Muggles did, what she
became. You know how my poor father sought revenge, and paid the price,
died in Azkaban. You know how my mother gave up her own life to care
for Ariana.
“I resented it, Harry.”
Dumbledore stated it baldly, coldly. He was looking now over the top of
Harry’s head, into the distance.
“I was gifted, I was brilliant. I wanted to escape. I wanted to shine. I
wanted glory.

“Do not misunderstand me,” he said, and pain crossed the face so that he
looked ancient again. “I loved them. I loved my parents, I loved my brother
and my sister, but I was selfish, Harry, more selfish than you, who are a
remarkably selfless person, could possibly imagine.
“So that, when my mother died, and I was left the responsibility of a
damaged sister and a wayward brother, I returned to my village in anger and
bitterness. Trapped and wasted, I thought! And then, of course, he
came. . . .”

Dumbledore looked directly into Harry’s eyes again.
“Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me, Harry,
inflamed me. Muggles forced into subservience. We wizards triumphant.
Grindelwald and I, the glorious young leaders of the revolution.
“Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience with empty words.
It would all be for the greater good, and any harm done would be repaid a
hundredfold in benefits for wizards. Did I know, in my heart of hearts, what
Gellert Grindelwald was? I think I did, but I closed my eyes. If the plans we
were making came to fruition, all my dreams would come true.

“And at the heart of our schemes, the Deathly Hallows! How they
fascinated him, how they fascinated both of us! The unbeatable wand, the
weapon that would lead us to power! The Resurrection Stone — to him,
though I pretended not to know it, it meant an army of Inferi! To me, I
confess, it meant the return of my parents, and the lifting of all
responsibility from my shoulders.

“And the Cloak  .  .  . somehow, we never discussed the Cloak much,
Harry. Both of us could conceal ourselves well enough without the Cloak,
the true magic of which, of course, is that it can be used to protect and
shield others as well as its owner. I thought that, if we ever found it, it might
be useful in hiding Ariana, but our interest in the Cloak was mainly that it
completed the trio, for the legend said that the man who united all three
objects would then be truly master of death, which we took to mean
‘invincible.’

“Invincible masters of death, Grindelwald and Dumbledore! Two months
of insanity, of cruel dreams, and neglect of the only two members of my
family left to me.
“And then . . . you know what happened. Reality returned in the form of
my rough, unlettered, and infinitely more admirable brother. I did not want
to hear the truths he shouted at me. I did not want to hear that I could not set
forth to seek Hallows with a fragile and unstable sister in tow.
“The argument became a fight. Grindelwald lost control. That which I
had always sensed in him, though I pretended not to, now sprang into
terrible being. And Ariana . . . after all my mother’s care and caution . . . lay
dead upon the floor.”

Dumbledore gave a little gasp and began to cry in earnest. Harry reached
out and was glad to find that he could touch him: He gripped his arm tightly
and Dumbledore gradually regained control.
“Well, Grindelwald fled, as anyone but I could have predicted. He
vanished, with his plans for seizing power, and his schemes for Muggle
torture, and his dreams of the Deathly Hallows, dreams in which I had
encouraged him and helped him. He ran, while I was left to bury my sister,
and learn to live with my guilt and my terrible grief, the price of my shame.
“Years passed. There were rumors about him. They said he had procured
a wand of immense power. I, meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister
of Magic, not once, but several times. Naturally, I refused. I had learned that
I was not to be trusted with power.”

“But you’d have been better, much better, than Fudge or Scrimgeour!”
burst out Harry.
“Would I?” asked Dumbledore heavily. “I am not so sure. I had proven,
as a very young man, that power was my weakness and my temptation. It is
a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited to power are
those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust
upon them, and take up the mantle because they must, and find to their own
surprise that they wear it well.

“I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher —”
“You were the best —”
“— you are very kind, Harry. But while I busied myself with the training
of young wizards, Grindelwald was raising an army. They say he feared me,
and perhaps he did, but less, I think, than I feared him.
“Oh, not death,” said Dumbledore, in answer to Harry’s questioning look.
“Not what he could do to me magically. I knew that we were evenly
matched, perhaps that I was a shade more skillful. It was the truth I feared.
You see, I never knew which of us, in that last, horrific fight, had actually
cast the curse that killed my sister. You may call me cowardly: You would
be right. Harry, I dreaded beyond all things the knowledge that it had been I
who brought about her death, not merely through my arrogance and
stupidity, but that I actually struck the blow that snuffed out her life.
“I think he knew it, I think he knew what frightened me. I delayed
meeting him until finally, it would have been too shameful to resist any
longer. People were dying and he seemed unstoppable, and I had to do what
I could.

“Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel. I won the wand.”
Another silence. Harry did not ask whether Dumbledore had ever found
out who struck Ariana dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he
want Dumbledore to have to tell him. At last he knew what Dumbledore
would have seen when he looked in the Mirror of Erised, and why
Dumbledore had been so understanding of the fascination it had exercised
over Harry.

They sat in silence for a long time, and the whimperings of the creature
behind them barely disturbed Harry anymore.
At last he said, “Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort going after the
wand. He lied, you know, pretended he had never had it.”
Dumbledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears still glittering on the
crooked nose.
“They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in his cell at
Nurmengard. I hope that it is true. I would like to think he did feel the
horror and shame of what he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was
his attempt to make amends  .  .  . to prevent Voldemort from taking the
Hallow . . .”

“.  .  . or maybe from breaking into your tomb?” suggested Harry, and
Dumbledore dabbed his eyes.
After another short pause Harry said, “You tried to use the Resurrection
Stone.”
Dumbledore nodded.

“When I discovered it, after all those years, buried in the abandoned
home of the Gaunts — the Hallow I had craved most of all, though in my
youth I had wanted it for very different reasons — I lost my head, Harry. I
quite forgot that it was now a Horcrux, that the ring was sure to carry a
curse. I picked it up, and I put it on, and for a second I imagined that I was
about to see Ariana, and my mother, and my father, and to tell them how
very, very sorry I was. . . .

“I was such a fool, Harry. After all those years I had learned nothing. I
was unworthy to unite the Deathly Hallows, I had proved it time and again,
and here was final proof.”
“Why?” said Harry. “It was natural! You wanted to see them again.
What’s wrong with that?”

“Maybe a man in a million could unite the Hallows, Harry. I was fit only
to possess the meanest of them, the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the
Elder Wand, and not to boast of it, and not to kill with it. I was permitted to
tame and to use it, because I took it, not for gain, but to save others from it.
“But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiosity, and so it could never have
worked for me as it works for you, its true owner. The stone I would have
used in an attempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather than to enable
my self-sacrifice, as you did. You are the worthy possessor of the Hallows.”
Dumbledore patted Harry’s hand, and Harry looked up at the old man and
smiled; he could not help himself. How could he remain angry with
Dumbledore now?

“Why did you have to make it so difficult?”
Dumbledore’s smile was tremulous.
“I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you up, Harry. I was
afraid that your hot head might dominate your good heart. I was scared that,
if presented outright with the facts about those tempting objects, you might
seize the Hallows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you
laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them safely. You are the true
master of death, because the true master does not seek to run away from
Death. He accepts that he must die, and understands that there are far, far
worse things in the living world than dying.”

“And Voldemort never knew about the Hallows?”
“I do not think so, because he did not recognize the Resurrection Stone
he turned into a Horcrux. But even if he had known about them, Harry, I
doubt that he would have been interested in any except the first. He would
not think that he needed the Cloak, and as for the stone, whom would he
want to bring back from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love.”
“But you expected him to go after the wand?”

“I have been sure that he would try, ever since your wand beat
Voldemort’s in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that
you had conquered him by superior skill. Once he had kidnapped
Ollivander, however, he discovered the existence of the twin cores. He
thought that explained everything. Yet the borrowed wand did no better
against yours! So Voldemort, instead of asking himself what quality it was
in you that had made your wand so strong, what gift you possessed that he
did not, naturally set out to find the one wand that, they said, would beat
any other. For him, the Elder Wand has become an obsession to rival his
obsession with you. He believes that the Elder Wand removes his last
weakness and makes him truly invincible. Poor Severus . . .”
“If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with the
Elder Wand, didn’t you?”

“I admit that was my intention,” said Dumbledore, “but it did not work as
I intended, did it?”
“No,” said Harry. “That bit didn’t work out.”
The creature behind them jerked and moaned, and Harry and
Dumbledore sat without talking for the longest time yet. The realization of
what would happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long minutes,
like softly falling snow.
“I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?”
“That is up to you.”
“I’ve got a choice?”

“Oh yes.” Dumbledore smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross, you say?
I think that if you decided not to go back, you would be able to . . . let’s
say . . . board a train.”
“And where would it take me?”
“On,” said Dumbledore simply.
Silence again.
“Voldemort’s got the Elder Wand.”
“True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand.”

“But you want me to go back?”
“I think,” said Dumbledore, “that if you choose to return, there is a
chance that he may be finished for good. I cannot promise it. But I know
this, Harry, that you have less to fear from returning here than he does.”
Harry glanced again at the raw-looking thing that trembled and choked in
the shadow beneath the distant chair.
“Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and, above all, those who
live without love. By returning, you may ensure that fewer souls are
maimed, fewer families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy goal,
then we say good-bye for the present.”

Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would not be nearly as hard
as walking into the forest had been, but it was warm and light and peaceful
here, and he knew that he was heading back to pain and the fear of more
loss. He stood up, and Dumbledore did the same, and they looked for a long
moment into each other’s faces.
“Tell me one last thing,” said Harry. “Is this real? Or has this been
happening inside my head?”
Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded loud and strong in
Harry’s ears even though the bright mist was descending again, obscuring
his figure.

“Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth
should that mean that it is not real?”


CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX

THE FLAW IN THE PLAN

e was lying facedown on the ground again. The smell of the forest
filled his nostrils. He could feel the cold hard ground beneath his
cheek, and the hinge of his glasses, which had been knocked sideways by
the fall, cutting into his temple. Every inch of him ached, and the place
where the Killing Curse had hit him felt like the bruise of an iron-clad
punch. He did not stir, but remained exactly where he had fallen, with his
left arm bent out at an awkward angle and his mouth gaping.
He had expected to hear cheers of triumph and jubilation at his death, but
instead hurried footsteps, whispers, and solicitous murmurs filled the air.
“My Lord . . . my Lord . . .”

It was Bellatrix’s voice, and she spoke as if to a lover. Harry did not dare
open his eyes, but allowed his other senses to explore his predicament. He
knew that his wand was still stowed beneath his robes because he could feel
it pressed between his chest and the ground. A slight cushioning effect in
the area of his stomach told him that the Invisibility Cloak was also there,
stuffed out of sight.
“My Lord . . .”

“That will do,” said Voldemort’s voice.
More footsteps: Several people were backing away from the same spot.
Desperate to see what was happening and why, Harry opened his eyes by a
millimeter.

Voldemort seemed to be getting to his feet. Various Death Eaters were
hurrying away from him, returning to the crowd lining the clearing.
Bellatrix alone remained behind, kneeling beside Voldemort.
Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he had seen. The Death
Eaters had been huddled around Voldemort, who seemed to have fallen to
the ground. Something had happened when he had hit Harry with the
Killing Curse. Had Voldemort too collapsed? It seemed like it. And both of
them had fallen briefly unconscious and both of them had now returned. . . .
“My Lord, let me —”

“I do not require assistance,” said Voldemort coldly, and though he could
not see it, Harry pictured Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand. “The
boy . . . Is he dead?”

There was complete silence in the clearing. Nobody approached Harry,
but he felt their concentrated gaze; it seemed to press him harder into the
ground, and he was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch.
“You,” said Voldemort, and there was a bang and a small shriek of pain.
“Examine him. Tell me whether he is dead.”

Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He could only lie there,
with his heart thumping traitorously, and wait to be examined, but at the
same time noting, small comfort though it was, that Voldemort was wary of
approaching him, that Voldemort suspected that all had not gone to plan. . . .
Hands, softer than he had been expecting, touched Harry’s face, pulled
back an eyelid, crept beneath his shirt, down to his chest, and felt his heart.
He could hear the woman’s fast breathing, her long hair tickled his face. He
knew that she could feel the steady pounding of life against his ribs.
“Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?”
The whisper was barely audible; her lips were an inch from his ear, her
head bent so low that her long hair shielded his face from the onlookers.
“Yes,” he breathed back.

He felt the hand on his chest contract; her nails pierced him. Then it was
withdrawn. She had sat up.
“He is dead!” Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers.
And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph and stamped their
feet, and through his eyelids, Harry saw bursts of red and silver light shoot
into the air in celebration.

Still feigning death on the ground, he understood. Narcissa knew that the
only way she would be permitted to enter Hogwarts, and find her son, was
as part of the conquering army. She no longer cared whether Voldemort
won.
“You see?” screeched Voldemort over the tumult. “Harry Potter is dead
by my hand, and no man alive can threaten me now! Watch! Crucio!”
Harry had been expecting it, knew his body would not be allowed to
remain unsullied upon the forest floor; it must be subjected to humiliation
to prove Voldemort’s victory. He was lifted into the air, and it took all his
determination to remain limp, yet the pain he expected did not come. He
was thrown once, twice, three times into the air: His glasses flew off and he
felt his wand slide a little beneath his robes, but he kept himself floppy and
lifeless, and when he fell to the ground for the last time, the clearing echoed
with jeers and shrieks of laughter.

“Now,” said Voldemort, “we go to the castle, and show them what has
become of their hero. Who shall drag the body? No — Wait —”
There was a fresh outbreak of laughter, and after a few moments Harry
felt the ground trembling beneath him.
“You carry him,” Voldemort said. “He will be nice and visible in your
arms, will he not? Pick up your little friend, Hagrid. And the glasses — put
on the glasses — he must be recognizable —”
Someone slammed Harry’s glasses back onto his face with deliberate
force, but the enormous hands that lifted him into the air were exceedingly
gentle. Harry could feel Hagrid’s arms trembling with the force of his
heaving sobs; great tears splashed down upon him as Hagrid cradled Harry
in his arms, and Harry did not dare, by movement or word, to intimate to
Hagrid that all was not, yet, lost.

“Move,” said Voldemort, and Hagrid stumbled forward, forcing his way
through the close-growing trees, back through the forest. Branches caught
at Harry’s hair and robes, but he lay quiescent, his mouth lolling open, his
eyes shut, and in the darkness, while the Death Eaters crowed all around
them, and while Hagrid sobbed blindly, nobody looked to see whether a
pulse beat in the exposed neck of Harry Potter. . . .
The two giants crashed along behind the Death Eaters; Harry could hear
trees creaking and falling as they passed; they made so much din that birds
rose shrieking into the sky, and even the jeers of the Death Eaters were
drowned. The victorious procession marched on toward the open ground,
and after a while Harry could tell, by the lightening of the darkness through
his closed eyelids, that the trees were beginning to thin.
“BANE!”

Hagrid’s unexpected bellow nearly forced Harry’s eyes open. “Happy
now, are yeh, that yeh didn’ fight, yeh cowardly bunch o’ nags? Are yeh
happy Harry Potter’s — d-dead . . . ?”
Hagrid could not continue, but broke down in fresh tears. Harry
wondered how many centaurs were watching their procession pass; he
dared not open his eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults at
the centaurs as they left them behind. A little later, Harry sensed, by a
freshening of the air, that they had reached the edge of the forest.
“Stop.”

Harry thought that Hagrid must have been forced to obey Voldemort’s
command, because he lurched a little. And now a chill settled over them
where they stood, and Harry heard the rasping breath of the dementors that
patrolled the outer trees. They would not affect him now. The fact of his
own survival burned inside him, a talisman against them, as though his
father’s stag kept guardian in his heart.
Someone passed close by Harry, and he knew that it was Voldemort
himself because he spoke a moment later, his voice magically magnified so
that it swelled through the grounds, crashing upon Harry’s eardrums.
“Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away, trying to save
himself while you lay down your lives for him. We bring you his body as
proof that your hero is gone.

“The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. My Death Eaters
outnumber you, and the Boy Who Lived is finished. There must be no more
war. Anyone who continues to resist, man, woman, or child, will be
slaughtered, as will every member of their family. Come out of the castle
now, kneel before me, and you shall be spared. Your parents and children,
your brothers and sisters will live and be forgiven, and you will join me in
the new world we shall build together.”

There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. Voldemort was so
close to him that Harry did not dare open his eyes again.
“Come,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move ahead, and Hagrid
was forced to follow. Now Harry opened his eyes a fraction, and saw
Voldemort striding in front of them, wearing the great snake Nagini around
his shoulders, now free of her enchanted cage. But Harry had no possibility
of extracting the wand concealed under his robes without being noticed by
the Death Eaters, who marched on either side of them through the slowly
lightening darkness. . . .
“Harry,” sobbed Hagrid. “Oh, Harry . . . Harry . . .”
Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were approaching the
castle and strained his ears to distinguish, above the gleeful voices of the
Death Eaters and their tramping footsteps, signs of life from those within.
“Stop.”

The Death Eaters came to a halt: Harry heard them spreading out in a line
facing the open front doors of the school. He could see, even through his
closed lids, the reddish glow that meant light streamed upon him from the
entrance hall. He waited. Any moment, the people for whom he had tried to
die would see him, lying apparently dead, in Hagrid’s arms.
“NO!”

The scream was the more terrible because he had never expected or
dreamed that Professor McGonagall could make such a sound. He heard
another woman laughing nearby, and knew that Bellatrix gloried in
McGonagall’s despair. He squinted again for a single second and saw the
open doorway filling with people, as the survivors of the battle came out
onto the front steps to face their vanquishers and see the truth of Harry’s
death for themselves. He saw Voldemort standing a little in front of him,
stroking Nagini’s head with a single white finger. He closed his eyes again.

“No!”
“No!”
“Harry! HARRY!”
Ron’s, Hermione’s, and Ginny’s voices were worse than McGonagall’s;
Harry wanted nothing more than to call back, yet he made himself lie silent,
and their cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took up the cause,
screaming and yelling abuse at the Death Eaters, until —
“SILENCE!” cried Voldemort, and there was a bang and a flash of bright
light, and silence was forced upon them all. “It is over! Set him down,
Hagrid, at my feet, where he belongs!”
Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass.

“You see?” said Voldemort, and Harry felt him striding backward and
forward right beside the place where he lay. “Harry Potter is dead! Do you
understand now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who relied
on others to sacrifice themselves for him!”
“He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and the defenders of
Hogwarts were shouting and screaming again until a second, more powerful
bang extinguished their voices once more.
“He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle grounds,” said
Voldemort, and there was relish in his voice for the lie, “killed while trying
to save himself —”

But Voldemort broke off: Harry heard a scuffle and a shout, then another
bang, a flash of light, and a grunt of pain; he opened his eyes an
infinitesimal amount. Someone had broken free of the crowd and charged at
Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground, Disarmed, Voldemort
throwing the challenger’s wand aside and laughing.
“And who is this?” he said in his soft snake’s hiss. “Who has volunteered
to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to fight when the battle
is lost?”
Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh.

“It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has been giving the
Carrows so much trouble! The son of the Aurors, remember?”
“Ah, yes, I remember,” said Voldemort, looking down at Neville, who
was struggling back to his feet, unarmed and unprotected, standing in the
no-man’s-land between the survivors and the Death Eaters. “But you are a
pureblood, aren’t you, my brave boy?” Voldemort asked Neville, who stood
facing him, his empty hands curled in fists.
“So what if I am?” said Neville loudly.
“You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble stock. You will
make a very valuable Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville
Longbottom.”

“I’ll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s
Army!” he shouted, and there was an answering cheer from the crowd,
whom Voldemort’s Silencing Charms seemed unable to hold.
“Very well,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard more danger in the
silkiness of his voice than in the most powerful curse. “If that is your
choice, Longbottom, we revert to the original plan. On your head,” he said
quietly, “be it.”

Still watching through his lashes, Harry saw Voldemort wave his wand.
Seconds later, out of one of the castle’s shattered windows, something that
looked like a misshapen bird flew through the half light and landed in
Voldemort’s hand. He shook the mildewed object by its pointed end and it
dangled, empty and ragged: the Sorting Hat.
“There will be no more Sorting at Hogwarts School,” said Voldemort.
“There will be no more Houses. The emblem, shield, and colors of my
noble ancestor, Salazar Slytherin, will suffice for everyone. Won’t they,
Neville Longbottom?”

He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and still, then forced the
hat onto Neville’s head, so that it slipped down below his eyes. There were
movements from the watching crowd in front of the castle, and as one, the
Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the fighters of Hogwarts at bay.
“Neville here is now going to demonstrate what happens to anyone
foolish enough to continue to oppose me,” said Voldemort, and with a flick
of his wand, he caused the Sorting Hat to burst into flames.
Screams split the dawn, and Neville was aflame, rooted to the spot,
unable to move, and Harry could not bear it: He must act —
And then many things happened at the same moment.

They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the school as what
sounded like hundreds of people came swarming over the out-of-sight walls
and pelted toward the castle, uttering loud war cries. At the same time,
Grawp came lumbering around the side of the castle and yelled,
“HAGGER!” His cry was answered by roars from Voldemort’s giants: They
ran at Grawp like bull elephants, making the earth quake. Then came
hooves and the twangs of bows, and arrows were suddenly falling amongst
the Death Eaters, who broke ranks, shouting their surprise. Harry pulled the
Invisibility Cloak from inside his robes, swung it over himself, and sprang
to his feet, as Neville moved too.

In one swift, fluid motion, Neville broke free of the Body-Bind Curse
upon him; the flaming hat fell off him and he drew from its depths
something silver, with a glittering, rubied handle —
The slash of the silver blade could not be heard over the roar of the
oncoming crowd or the sounds of the clashing giants or of the stampeding
centaurs, and yet it seemed to draw every eye. With a single stroke Neville
sliced off the great snake’s head, which spun high into the air, gleaming in
the light flooding from the entrance hall, and Voldemort’s mouth was open
in a scream of fury that nobody could hear, and the snake’s body thudded to
the ground at his feet —

Hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry cast a Shield Charm
between Neville and Voldemort before the latter could raise his wand. Then,
over the screams and the roars and the thunderous stamps of the battling
giants, Hagrid’s yell came loudest of all.
“HARRY!” Hagrid shouted. “HARRY — WHERE’S HARRY?”

Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering the Death Eaters,
everyone was fleeing the giants’ stamping feet, and nearer and nearer
thundered the reinforcements that had come from who knew where; Harry
saw great winged creatures soaring around the heads of Voldemort’s giants,
thestrals and Buckbeak the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp
punched and pummeled them; and now the wizards, defenders of Hogwarts
and Death Eaters alike, were being forced back into the castle. Harry was
shooting jinxes and curses at any Death Eater he could see, and they
crumpled, not knowing what or who had hit them, and their bodies were
trampled by the retreating crowd.

Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry was buffeted into the
entrance hall: He was searching for Voldemort and saw him across the
room, firing spells from his wand as he backed into the Great Hall, still
screaming instructions to his followers as he sent curses flying left and
right; Harry cast more Shield Charms, and Voldemort’s would-be victims,
Seamus Finnigan and Hannah Abbott, darted past him into the Great Hall,
where they joined the fight already flourishing inside it.
And now there were more, even more people storming up the front steps,
and Harry saw Charlie Weasley overtaking Horace Slughorn, who was still
wearing his emerald pajamas. They seemed to have returned at the head of
what looked like the families and friends of every Hogwarts student who
had remained to fight, along with the shopkeepers and homeowners of
Hogsmeade. The centaurs Bane, Ronan, and Magorian burst into the hall
with a great clatter of hooves, as behind Harry the door that led to the
kitchens was blasted off its hinges.

The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed into the entrance hall, screaming
and waving carving knives and cleavers, and at their head, the locket of
Regulus Black bouncing on his chest, was Kreacher, his bullfrog’s voice
audible even above this din: “Fight! Fight! Fight for my Master, defender of
house-elves! Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of brave Regulus! Fight!”
They were hacking and stabbing at the ankles and shins of Death Eaters,
their tiny faces alive with malice, and everywhere Harry looked Death
Eaters were folding under sheer weight of numbers, overcome by spells,
dragging arrows from wounds, stabbed in the leg by elves, or else simply
attempting to escape, but swallowed by the oncoming horde.
But it was not over yet: Harry sped between duelers, past struggling
prisoners, and into the Great Hall.

Voldemort was in the center of the battle, and he was striking and smiting
all within reach. Harry could not get a clear shot, but fought his way nearer,
still invisible, and the Great Hall became more and more crowded as
everyone who could walk forced their way inside.
Harry saw Yaxley slammed to the floor by George and Lee Jordan, saw
Dolohov fall with a scream at Flitwick’s hands, saw Walden Macnair
thrown across the room by Hagrid, hit the stone wall opposite, and slide
unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and Neville bringing down Fenrir
Greyback, Aberforth Stunning Rookwood, Arthur and Percy flooring
Thicknesse, and Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy running through the crowd,
not even attempting to fight, screaming for their son.

Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn, and Kingsley all at
once, and there was cold hatred in his face as they wove and ducked around
him, unable to finish him —
Bellatrix was still fighting too, fifty yards away from Voldemort, and like
her master she dueled three at once: Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, all
battling their hardest, but Bellatrix was equal to them, and Harry’s attention
was diverted as a Killing Curse shot so close to Ginny that she missed death
by an inch —
He changed course, running at Bellatrix rather than Voldemort, but before
he had gone a few steps he was knocked sideways.

“NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH!”
Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing her arms. Bellatrix
spun on the spot, roaring with laughter at the sight of her new challenger.
“OUT OF MY WAY!” shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three girls, and with
a swipe of her wand she began to duel. Harry watched with terror and
elation as Molly Weasley’s wand slashed and twirled, and Bellatrix
Lestrange’s smile faltered and became a snarl. Jets of light flew from both
wands, the floor around the witches’ feet became hot and cracked; both
women were fighting to kill.

“No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran forward, trying to come
to her aid. “Get back! Get back! She is mine!”
Hundreds of people now lined the walls, watching the two fights,
Voldemort and his three opponents, Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry stood,
invisible, torn between both, wanting to attack and yet to protect, unable to
be sure that he would not hit the innocent.
“What will happen to your children when I’ve killed you?” taunted
Bellatrix, as mad as her master, capering as Molly’s curses danced around
her. “When Mummy’s gone the same way as Freddie?”
“You — will — never — touch — our — children — again!” screamed
Mrs. Weasley.

Bellatrix laughed, the same exhilarated laugh her cousin Sirius had given
as he toppled backward through the veil, and suddenly Harry knew what
was going to happen before it did.
Molly’s curse soared beneath Bellatrix’s outstretched arm and hit her
squarely in the chest, directly over her heart.
Bellatrix’s gloating smile froze, her eyes seemed to bulge: For the tiniest
space of time she knew what had happened, and then she toppled, and the
watching crowd roared, and Voldemort screamed.
Harry felt as though he turned in slow motion; he saw McGonagall,
Kingsley, and Slughorn blasted backward, flailing and writhing through the
air, as Voldemort’s fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant exploded with
the force of a bomb. Voldemort raised his wand and directed it at Molly
Weasley.

“Protego!” roared Harry, and the Shield Charm expanded in the middle
of the Hall, and Voldemort stared around for the source as Harry pulled off
the Invisibility Cloak at last.
The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every side of “Harry!”
“HE’S ALIVE!” were stifled at once. The crowd was afraid, and silence fell
abruptly and completely as Voldemort and Harry looked at each other, and
began, at the same moment, to circle each other.
“I don’t want anyone else to try to help,” Harry said loudly, and in the
total silence his voice carried like a trumpet call. “It’s got to be like this. It’s
got to be me.”
Voldemort hissed.

“Potter doesn’t mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide. “That isn’t how he
works, is it? Who are you going to use as a shield today, Potter?”
“Nobody,” said Harry simply. “There are no more Horcruxes. It’s just
you and me. Neither can live while the other survives, and one of us is
about to leave for good. . . .”
“One of us?” jeered Voldemort, and his whole body was taut and his red
eyes stared, a snake that was about to strike. “You think it will be you, do
you, the boy who has survived by accident, and because Dumbledore was
pulling the strings?”

“Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?” asked Harry. They
were still moving sideways, both of them, in that perfect circle, maintaining
the same distance from each other, and for Harry no face existed but
Voldemort’s. “Accident, when I decided to fight in that graveyard?
Accident, that I didn’t defend myself tonight, and still survived, and
returned to fight again?”

“Accidents!” screamed Voldemort, but still he did not strike, and the
watching crowd was frozen as if Petrified, and of the hundreds in the Hall,
nobody seemed to breathe but they two. “Accident and chance and the fact
that you crouched and sniveled behind the skirts of greater men and women,
and permitted me to kill them for you!”
“You won’t be killing anyone else tonight,” said Harry as they circled,
and stared into each other’s eyes, green into red. “You won’t be able to kill
any of them ever again. Don’t you get it? I was ready to die to stop you
from hurting these people —”
“But you did not!”

“— I meant to, and that’s what did it. I’ve done what my mother did.
They’re protected from you. Haven’t you noticed how none of the spells
you put on them are binding? You can’t torture them. You can’t touch them.
You don’t learn from your mistakes, Riddle, do you?”
“You dare —”

“Yes, I dare,” said Harry. “I know things you don’t know, Tom Riddle. I
know lots of important things that you don’t. Want to hear some, before you
make another big mistake?”
Voldemort did not speak, but prowled in a circle, and Harry knew that he
kept him temporarily mesmerized and at bay, held back by the faintest
possibility that Harry might indeed know a final secret. . . .
“Is it love again?” said Voldemort, his snake’s face jeering.

“Dumbledore’s favorite solution, love, which he claimed conquered death,
though love did not stop him falling from the tower and breaking like an old
waxwork? Love, which did not prevent me stamping out your Mudblood
mother like a cockroach, Potter — and nobody seems to love you enough to
run forward this time and take my curse. So what will stop you dying now
when I strike?”

“Just one thing,” said Harry, and still they circled each other, wrapped in
each other, held apart by nothing but the last secret.
“If it is not love that will save you this time,” said Voldemort, “you must
believe that you have magic that I do not, or else a weapon more powerful
than mine?”

“I believe both,” said Harry, and he saw shock flit across the snakelike
face, though it was instantly dispelled; Voldemort began to laugh, and the
sound was more frightening than his screams; humorless and insane, it
echoed around the silent Hall.
“You think you know more magic than I do?” he said. “Than I, than Lord
Voldemort, who has performed magic that Dumbledore himself never
dreamed of?”
“Oh, he dreamed of it,” said Harry, “but he knew more than you, knew
enough not to do what you’ve done.”
“You mean he was weak!” screamed Voldemort. “Too weak to dare, too
weak to take what might have been his, what will be mine!”
“No, he was cleverer than you,” said Harry, “a better wizard, a better
man.”

“I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore!”
“You thought you did,” said Harry, “but you were wrong.”
For the first time, the watching crowd stirred as the hundreds of people
around the walls drew breath as one.
“Dumbledore is dead!” Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as though
they would cause him unendurable pain. “His body decays in the marble
tomb in the grounds of this castle, I have seen it, Potter, and he will not
return!”

“Yes, Dumbledore’s dead,” said Harry calmly, “but you didn’t have him
killed. He chose his own manner of dying, chose it months before he died,
arranged the whole thing with the man you thought was your servant.”
“What childish dream is this?” said Voldemort, but still he did not strike,
and his red eyes did not waver from Harry’s.
“Severus Snape wasn’t yours,” said Harry. “Snape was Dumbledore’s,
Dumbledore’s from the moment you started hunting down my mother. And
you never realized it, because of the thing you can’t understand. You never
saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you, Riddle?”

Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle each other like
wolves about to tear each other apart.
“Snape’s Patronus was a doe,” said Harry, “the same as my mother’s,
because he loved her for nearly all of his life, from the time when they were
children. You should have realized,” he said as he saw Voldemort’s nostrils
flare, “he asked you to spare her life, didn’t he?”
“He desired her, that was all,” sneered Voldemort, “but when she had
gone, he agreed that there were other women, and of purer blood, worthier
of him —”
“Of course he told you that,” said Harry, “but he was Dumbledore’s spy
from the moment you threatened her, and he’s been working against you
ever since! Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished him!”
“It matters not!” shrieked Voldemort, who had followed every word with
rapt attention, but now let out a cackle of mad laughter. “It matters not
whether Snape was mine or Dumbledore’s, or what petty obstacles they
tried to put in my path! I crushed them as I crushed your mother, Snape’s
supposed great love! Oh, but it all makes sense, Potter, and in ways that you
do not understand!

“Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from me! He intended
that Snape should be the true master of the wand! But I got there ahead of
you, little boy — I reached the wand before you could get your hands on it,
I understood the truth before you caught up. I killed Severus Snape three
hours ago, and the Elder Wand, the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is truly
mine! Dumbledore’s last plan went wrong, Harry Potter!”
“Yeah, it did,” said Harry. “You’re right. But before you try to kill me, I’d
advise you to think about what you’ve done. . . . Think, and try for some
remorse, Riddle. . . .”
“What is this?”

Of all the things that Harry had said to him, beyond any revelation or
taunt, nothing had shocked Voldemort like this. Harry saw his pupils
contract to thin slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten.
“It’s your one last chance,” said Harry, “it’s all you’ve got left. . . . I’ve
seen what you’ll be otherwise.  .  .  . Be a man  .  .  . try  .  .  . Try for some
remorse. . . .”
“You dare — ?” said Voldemort again.
“Yes, I dare,” said Harry, “because Dumbledore’s last plan hasn’t
backfired on me at all. It’s backfired on you, Riddle.”
Voldemort’s hand was trembling on the Elder Wand, and Harry gripped
Draco’s very tightly. The moment, he knew, was seconds away.
“That wand still isn’t working properly for you because you murdered
the wrong person. Severus Snape was never the true master of the Elder
Wand. He never defeated Dumbledore.”

“He killed —”
“Aren’t you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledore! Dumbledore’s
death was planned between them! Dumbledore intended to die undefeated,
the wand’s last true master! If all had gone as planned, the wand’s power
would have died with him, because it had never been won from him!”
“But then, Potter, Dumbledore as good as gave me the wand!”
Voldemort’s voice shook with malicious pleasure. “I stole the wand from its
last master’s tomb! I removed it against its last master’s wishes! Its power
is mine!”

“You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the wand isn’t enough!
Holding it, using it, doesn’t make it really yours. Didn’t you listen to
Ollivander? The wand chooses the wizard. . . . The Elder Wand recognized
a new master before Dumbledore died, someone who never even laid a
hand on it. The new master removed the wand from Dumbledore against his
will, never realizing exactly what he had done, or that the world’s most
dangerous wand had given him its allegiance. . . .”
Voldemort’s chest rose and fell rapidly, and Harry could feel the curse
coming, feel it building inside the wand pointed at his face.
“The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco Malfoy.”

Blank shock showed in Voldemort’s face for a moment, but then it was
gone.
“But what does it matter?” he said softly. “Even if you are right, Potter, it
makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand:
We duel on skill alone . . . and after I have killed you, I can attend to Draco
Malfoy. . . .”

“But you’re too late,” said Harry. “You’ve missed your chance. I got
there first. I overpowered Draco weeks ago. I took this wand from him.”
Harry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the eyes of everyone in
the Hall upon it.
“So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whispered Harry. “Does the
wand in your hand know its last master was Disarmed? Because if it
does . . . I am the true master of the Elder Wand.”
A red-gold glow burst suddenly across the enchanted sky above them as
an edge of dazzling sun appeared over the sill of the nearest window. The
light hit both of their faces at the same time, so that Voldemort’s was
suddenly a flaming blur. Harry heard the high voice shriek as he too yelled
his best hope to the heavens, pointing Draco’s wand:

“Avada Kedavra!”
“Expelliarmus!”

The bang was like a cannon blast, and the golden flames that erupted
between them, at the dead center of the circle they had been treading,
marked the point where the spells collided. Harry saw Voldemort’s green jet
meet his own spell, saw the Elder Wand fly high, dark against the sunrise,
spinning across the enchanted ceiling like the head of Nagini, spinning
through the air toward the master it would not kill, who had come to take
full possession of it at last. And Harry, with the unerring skill of the Seeker,
caught the wand in his free hand as Voldemort fell backward, arms splayed,
the slit pupils of the scarlet eyes rolling upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor
with a mundane finality, his body feeble and shrunken, the white hands
empty, the snakelike face vacant and unknowing. Voldemort was dead,
killed by his own rebounding curse, and Harry stood with two wands in his
hand, staring down at his enemy’s shell.

One shivering second of silence, the shock of the moment suspended:
and then the tumult broke around Harry as the screams and the cheers and
the roars of the watchers rent the air. The fierce new sun dazzled the
windows as they thundered toward him, and the first to reach him were Ron
and Hermione, and it was their arms that were wrapped around him, their
incomprehensible shouts that deafened him. Then Ginny, Neville, and Luna
were there, and then all the Weasleys and Hagrid, and Kingsley and
McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout, and Harry could not hear a word that
anyone was shouting, nor tell whose hands were seizing him, pulling him,
trying to hug some part of him, hundreds of them pressing in, all of them
determined to touch the Boy Who Lived, the reason it was over at last —

The sun rose steadily over Hogwarts, and the Great Hall blazed with life
and light. Harry was an indispensable part of the mingled outpourings of
jubilation and mourning, of grief and celebration. They wanted him there
with them, their leader and symbol, their savior and their guide, and that he
had not slept, that he craved the company of only a few of them, seemed to
occur to no one. He must speak to the bereaved, clasp their hands, witness
their tears, receive their thanks, hear the news now creeping in from every
quarter as the morning drew on; that the Imperiused up and down the
country had come back to themselves, that Death Eaters were fleeing or else
being captured, that the innocent of Azkaban were being released at that
very moment, and that Kingsley Shacklebolt had been named temporary
Minister of Magic. . . .

They moved Voldemort’s body and laid it in a chamber off the Hall, away
from the bodies of Fred, Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, and fifty others who
had died fighting him. McGonagall had replaced the House tables, but
nobody was sitting according to House anymore: All were jumbled
together, teachers and pupils, ghosts and parents, centaurs and house-elves,
and Firenze lay recovering in a corner, and Grawp peered in through a
smashed window, and people were throwing food into his laughing mouth.
After a while, exhausted and drained, Harry found himself sitting on a
bench beside Luna.
“I’d want some peace and quiet, if it were me,” she said.
“I’d love some,” he replied.
“I’ll distract them all,” she said. “Use your Cloak.”

And before he could say a word she had cried, “Oooh, look, a Blibbering
Humdinger!” and pointed out of the window. Everyone who heard looked
around, and Harry slid the Cloak up over himself, and got to his feet.
Now he could move through the Hall without interference. He spotted
Ginny two tables away; she was sitting with her head on her mother’s
shoulder: There would be time to talk later, hours and days and maybe years
in which to talk. He saw Neville, the sword of Gryffindor lying beside his
plate as he ate, surrounded by a knot of fervent admirers. Along the aisle
between the tables he walked, and he spotted the three Malfoys, huddled
together as though unsure whether or not they were supposed to be there,
but nobody was paying them any attention. Everywhere he looked he saw
families reunited, and finally, he saw the two whose company he craved
most.

“It’s me,” he muttered, crouching down between them. “Will you come
with me?”
They stood up at once, and together he, Ron, and Hermione left the Great
Hall. Great chunks were missing from the marble staircase, part of the
balustrade gone, and rubble and bloodstains occurred every few steps as
they climbed.
Somewhere in the distance they could hear Peeves zooming through the
corridors singing a victory song of his own composition:
We did it, we bashed them, wee Potter’s the one,
And Voldy’s gone moldy, so now let’s have fun!

“Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the thing, doesn’t it?”
said Ron, pushing open a door to let Harry and Hermione through.
Happiness would come, Harry thought, but at the moment it was muffled
by exhaustion, and the pain of losing Fred and Lupin and Tonks pierced him
like a physical wound every few steps. Most of all he felt the most
stupendous relief, and a longing to sleep. But first he owed an explanation
to Ron and Hermione, who had stuck with him for so long, and who
deserved the truth. Painstakingly he recounted what he had seen in the
Pensieve and what had happened in the forest, and they had not even begun
to express all their shock and amazement when at last they arrived at the
place to which they had been walking, though none of them had mentioned
their destination.

Since he had last seen it, the gargoyle guarding the entrance to the
headmaster’s study had been knocked aside; it stood lopsided, looking a
little punch-drunk, and Harry wondered whether it would be able to
distinguish passwords anymore.
“Can we go up?” he asked the gargoyle.
“Feel free,” groaned the statue.
They clambered over him and onto the spiral stone staircase that moved
slowly upward like an escalator. Harry pushed open the door at the top.
He had one, brief glimpse of the stone Pensieve on the desk where he had
left it, and then an earsplitting noise made him cry out, thinking of curses
and returning Death Eaters and the rebirth of Voldemort —
But it was applause. All around the walls, the headmasters and
headmistresses of Hogwarts were giving him a standing ovation; they
waved their hats and in some cases their wigs, they reached through their
frames to grip each other’s hands; they danced up and down on the chairs in
which they had been painted; Dilys Derwent sobbed unashamedly; Dexter
Fortescue was waving his ear-trumpet; and Phineas Nigellus called, in his
high, reedy voice, “And let it be noted that Slytherin House played its part!
Let our contribution not be forgotten!”

But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the largest portrait
directly behind the headmaster’s chair. Tears were sliding down from
behind the half-moon spectacles into the long silver beard, and the pride
and the gratitude emanating from him filled Harry with the same balm as
phoenix song.
At last, Harry held up his hands, and the portraits fell respectfully silent,
beaming and mopping their eyes and waiting eagerly for him to speak. He
directed his words at Dumbledore, however, and chose them with enormous
care. Exhausted and bleary-eyed though he was, he must make one last
effort, seeking one last piece of advice.

“The thing that was hidden in the Snitch,” he began, “I dropped it in the
forest. I don’t know exactly where, but I’m not going to go looking for it
again. Do you agree?”
“My dear boy, I do,” said Dumbledore, while his fellow pictures looked
confused and curious. “A wise and courageous decision, but no less than I
would have expected of you. Does anyone else know where it fell?”
“No one,” said Harry, and Dumbledore nodded his satisfaction.
“I’m going to keep Ignotus’s present, though,” said Harry, and
Dumbledore beamed.

“But of course, Harry, it is yours forever, until you pass it on!”
“And then there’s this.”
Harry held up the Elder Wand, and Ron and Hermione looked at it with a
reverence that, even in his befuddled and sleep-deprived state, Harry did not
like to see.
“I don’t want it,” said Harry.
“What?” said Ron loudly. “Are you mental?”
“I know it’s powerful,” said Harry wearily. “But I was happier with mine.
So . . .”

He rummaged in the pouch hung around his neck, and pulled out the two
halves of holly still just connected by the finest thread of phoenix feather.
Hermione had said that they could not be repaired, that the damage was too
severe. All he knew was that if this did not work, nothing would.
He laid the broken wand upon the headmaster’s desk, touched it with the
very tip of the Elder Wand, and said, “Reparo.”
As his wand resealed, red sparks flew out of its end. Harry knew that he
had succeeded. He picked up the holly and phoenix wand and felt a sudden
warmth in his fingers, as though wand and hand were rejoicing at their
reunion.

“I’m putting the Elder Wand,” he told Dumbledore, who was watching
him with enormous affection and admiration, “back where it came from. It
can stay there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus, its power will be broken,
won’t it? The previous master will never have been defeated. That’ll be the
end of it.”

Dumbledore nodded. They smiled at each other.
“Are you sure?” said Ron. There was the faintest trace of longing in his
voice as he looked at the Elder Wand.
“I think Harry’s right,” said Hermione quietly.
“That wand’s more trouble than it’s worth,” said Harry. “And quite
honestly,” he turned away from the painted portraits, thinking now only of
the four-poster bed lying waiting for him in Gryffindor Tower, and
wondering whether Kreacher might bring him a sandwich there, “I’ve had
enough trouble for a lifetime.”


CHAPER EPILOGUE

NINETEEN YEARS LATER

utumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The morning of the first
of September was crisp and golden as an apple, and as the little
family bobbed across the rumbling road toward the great sooty station, the
fumes of car exhausts and the breath of pedestrians sparkled like cobwebs
in the cold air. Two large cages rattled on top of the laden trolleys the
parents were pushing; the owls inside them hooted indignantly, and the
redheaded girl trailed tearfully behind her brothers, clutching her father’s
arm.

“It won’t be long, and you’ll be going too,” Harry told her.
“Two years,” sniffed Lily. “I want to go now!”
The commuters stared curiously at the owls as the family wove its way
toward the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Albus’s voice drifted
back to Harry over the surrounding clamor; his sons had resumed the
argument they had started in the car.
“I won’t! I won’t be in Slytherin!”
“James, give it a rest!” said Ginny.

“I only said he might be,” said James, grinning at his younger brother.
“There’s nothing wrong with that. He might be in Slyth —”
But James caught his mother’s eye and fell silent. The five Potters
approached the barrier. With a slightly cocky look over his shoulder at his
younger brother, James took the trolley from his mother and broke into a
run. A moment later, he had vanished.

“You’ll write to me, won’t you?” Albus asked his parents immediately,
capitalizing on the momentary absence of his brother.
“Every day, if you want us to,” said Ginny.
“Not every day,” said Albus quickly. “James says most people only get
letters from home about once a month.”
“We wrote to James three times a week last year,” said Ginny.
“And you don’t want to believe everything he tells you about Hogwarts,”
Harry put in. “He likes a laugh, your brother.”
Side by side, they pushed the second trolley forward, gathering speed. As
they reached the barrier, Albus winced, but no collision came. Instead, the
family emerged onto platform nine and three-quarters, which was obscured
by thick white steam that was pouring from the scarlet Hogwarts Express.
Indistinct figures were swarming through the mist, into which James had
already disappeared.

“Where are they?” asked Albus anxiously, peering at the hazy forms they
passed as they made their way down the platform.
“We’ll find them,” said Ginny reassuringly.
But the vapor was dense, and it was difficult to make out anybody’s
faces. Detached from their owners, voices sounded unnaturally loud. Harry
thought he heard Percy discoursing loudly on broomstick regulations, and
was quite glad of the excuse not to stop and say hello. . . .
“I think that’s them, Al,” said Ginny suddenly.
A group of four people emerged from the mist, standing alongside the
very last carriage. Their faces only came into focus when Harry, Ginny,
Lily, and Albus had drawn right up to them.
“Hi,” said Albus, sounding immensely relieved.

Rose, who was already wearing her brand-new Hogwarts robes, beamed
at him.
“Parked all right, then?” Ron asked Harry. “I did. Hermione didn’t
believe I could pass a Muggle driving test, did you? She thought I’d have to
Confund the examiner.”
“No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, “I had complete faith in you.”

“As a matter of fact, I did Confund him,” Ron whispered to Harry, as
together they lifted Albus’s trunk and owl onto the train. “I only forgot to
look in the wing mirror, and let’s face it, I can use a Supersensory Charm
for that.”

Back on the platform, they found Lily and Hugo, Rose’s younger brother,
having an animated discussion about which House they would be sorted
into when they finally went to Hogwarts.
“If you’re not in Gryffindor, we’ll disinherit you,” said Ron, “but no
pressure.”
“Ron!”

Lily and Hugo laughed, but Albus and Rose looked solemn.
“He doesn’t mean it,” said Hermione and Ginny, but Ron was no longer
paying attention. Catching Harry’s eye, he nodded covertly to a point some
fifty yards away. The steam had thinned for a moment, and three people
stood in sharp relief against the shifting mist.
“Look who it is.”

Draco Malfoy was standing there with his wife and son, a dark coat
buttoned up to his throat. His hair was receding somewhat, which
emphasized the pointed chin. The new boy resembled Draco as much as
Albus resembled Harry. Draco caught sight of Harry, Ron, Hermione, and
Ginny staring at him, nodded curtly, and turned away again.
“So that’s little Scorpius,” said Ron under his breath. “Make sure you
beat him in every test, Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mother’s
brains.”

“Ron, for heaven’s sake,” said Hermione, half stern, half amused. “Don’t
try to turn them against each other before they’ve even started school!”
“You’re right, sorry,” said Ron, but unable to help himself, he added,
“Don’t get too friendly with him, though, Rosie. Granddad Weasley would
never forgive you if you married a pureblood.”
“Hey!”

James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his trunk, owl, and
trolley, and was evidently bursting with news.
“Teddy’s back there,” he said breathlessly, pointing back over his
shoulder into the billowing clouds of steam. “Just seen him! And guess
what he’s doing? Snogging Victoire!”
He gazed up at the adults, evidently disappointed by the lack of reaction.
“Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin! Snogging our Victoire! Our cousin! And I
asked Teddy what he was doing —”

“You interrupted them?” said Ginny. “You are so like Ron —”
“— and he said he’d come to see her off! And then he told me to go
away. He’s snogging her!” James added as though worried he had not made
himself clear.
“Oh, it would be lovely if they got married!” whispered Lily ecstatically.
“Teddy would really be part of the family then!”
“He already comes round for dinner about four times a week,” said
Harry. “Why don’t we just invite him to live with us and have done with
it?”

“Yeah!” said James enthusiastically. “I don’t mind sharing with Al —
Teddy could have my room!”
“No,” said Harry firmly, “you and Al will share a room only when I want
the house demolished.”
He checked the battered old watch that had once been Fabian Prewett’s.
“It’s nearly eleven, you’d better get on board.”
“Don’t forget to give Neville our love!” Ginny told James as she hugged
him.

“Mum! I can’t give a professor love!”
“But you know Neville —”
James rolled his eyes.
“Outside, yeah, but at school he’s Professor Longbottom, isn’t he? I can’t
walk into Herbology and give him love. . . .”
Shaking his head at his mother’s foolishness, he vented his feelings by
aiming a kick at Albus.

“See you later, Al. Watch out for the thestrals.”
“I thought they were invisible? You said they were invisible!”
But James merely laughed, permitted his mother to kiss him, gave his
father a fleeting hug, then leapt onto the rapidly filling train. They saw him
wave, then sprint away up the corridor to find his friends.
“Thestrals are nothing to worry about,” Harry told Albus. “They’re
gentle things, there’s nothing scary about them. Anyway, you won’t be
going up to school in the carriages, you’ll be going in the boats.”
Ginny kissed Albus good-bye.

“See you at Christmas.”
“Bye, Al,” said Harry as his son hugged him. “Don’t forget Hagrid’s
invited you to tea next Friday. Don’t mess with Peeves. Don’t duel anyone
till you’ve learned how. And don’t let James wind you up.”
“What if I’m in Slytherin?”
The whisper was for his father alone, and Harry knew that only the
moment of departure could have forced Albus to reveal how great and
sincere that fear was.

Harry crouched down so that Albus’s face was slightly above his own.
Alone of Harry’s three children, Albus had inherited Lily’s eyes.
“Albus Severus,” Harry said quietly, so that nobody but Ginny could
hear, and she was tactful enough to pretend to be waving to Rose, who was
now on the train, “you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One
of them was a Slytherin and he was probably the bravest man I ever knew.”
“But just say —”

“— then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent student, won’t it?
It doesn’t matter to us, Al. But if it matters to you, you’ll be able to choose
Gryffindor over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into account.”
“Really?”
“It did for me,” said Harry.

He had never told any of his children that before, and he saw the wonder
in Albus’s face when he said it. But now the doors were slamming all along
the scarlet train, and the blurred outlines of parents were swarming forward
for final kisses, last-minute reminders. Albus jumped into the carriage and
Ginny closed the door behind him. Students were hanging from the
windows nearest them. A great number of faces, both on the train and off,
seemed to be turned toward Harry.

“Why are they all staring?” demanded Albus as he and Rose craned
around to look at the other students.
“Don’t let it worry you,” said Ron. “It’s me. I’m extremely famous.”
Albus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laughed. The train began to move, and
Harry walked alongside it, watching his son’s thin face, already ablaze with
excitement. Harry kept smiling and waving, even though it was like a little
bereavement, watching his son glide away from him. . . .
The last trace of steam evaporated in the autumn air. The train rounded a
corner. Harry’s hand was still raised in farewell.
“He’ll be all right,” murmured Ginny.

As Harry looked at her, he lowered his hand absentmindedly and touched
the lightning scar on his forehead.
“I know he will.”
The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well.


CHAPTER  ELEVEN

THE SORTING HAT’S NEW SONG

arry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna were having the
same hallucination, if that was what it was, so he said nothing about
the horses as he sat down inside the carriage and slammed the door behind
him. Nevertheless, he could not help watching the silhouettes of the horses
moving beyond the window.

“Did everyone see that Grubbly-Plank woman?” asked Ginny. “What’s
she doing back here? Hagrid can’t have left, can he?”
“I’ll be quite glad if he has,” said Luna. “He isn’t a very good teacher, is
he?”

“Yes, he is!” said Harry, Ron, and Ginny angrily.
Harry glared at Hermione; she cleared her throat and quickly said,
“Erm . . . yes . . . he’s very good.”
“Well, we think he’s a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw,” said Luna, unfazed.
“You’ve got a rubbish sense of humor then,” Ron snapped, as the wheels
below them creaked into motion.
Luna did not seem perturbed by Ron’s rudeness; on the contrary, she
simply watched him for a while as though he were a mildly interesting
television program.

Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy up the road. When
they passed between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars on
either side of the gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned forward to try
and see whether there were any lights on in Hagrid’s cabin by the Forbidden
Forest, but the grounds were in complete darkness. Hogwarts Castle,
however, loomed ever closer: a towering mass of turrets, jet-black against
the dark sky, here and there a window blazing fiery bright above them.

The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps leading up to the oak
front doors and Harry got out of the carriage first. He turned again to look
for lit windows down by the forest, but there was definitely no sign of life
within Hagrid’s cabin. Unwillingly, because he had half hoped they would
have vanished, he turned his eyes instead upon the strange, skeletal
creatures standing quietly in the chill night air, their blank white eyes
gleaming.

Harry had once before had the experience of seeing something that Ron
could not, but that had been a reflection in a mirror, something much more
insubstantial than a hundred very solid-looking beasts strong enough to pull
a fleet of carriages. If Luna was to be believed, the beasts had always been
there but invisible; why, then, could Harry suddenly see them, and why
could Ron not?

“Are you coming or what?” said Ron beside him.
“Oh . . . yeah,” said Harry quickly, and they joined the crowd hurrying up
the stone steps into the castle.
The entrance hall was ablaze with torches and echoing with footsteps as
the students crossed the flagged stone floor for the double doors to the right,
leading to the Great Hall and the start-of-term feast.

The four long House tables in the Great Hall were filling up under the
starless black ceiling, which was just like the sky they could glimpse
through the high windows. Candles floated in midair all along the tables,
illuminating the silvery ghosts who were dotted about the Hall and the faces
of the students talking eagerly to one another, exchanging summer news,
shouting greetings at friends from other Houses, eyeing one another’s new
haircuts and robes. Again Harry noticed people putting their heads together
to whisper as he passed; he gritted his teeth and tried to act as though he
neither noticed nor cared.

Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. The moment they
reached Gryffindor’s, Ginny was hailed by some fellow fourth years and
left to sit with them; Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville found seats
together about halfway down the table between Nearly Headless Nick, the
Gryffindor House ghost, and Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown, the last two
of whom gave Harry airy, overly friendly greetings that made him quite
sure they had stopped talking about him a split second before. He had more
important things to worry about, however: He was looking over the
students’ heads to the staff table that ran along the top wall of the Hall.

“He’s not there.”
Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though there was no real
need; Hagrid’s size made him instantly obvious in any lineup.
“He can’t have left,” said Ron, sounding slightly anxious.
“Of course he hasn’t,” said Harry firmly.
“You don’t think he’s  .  .  . hurt, or anything, do you?” said Hermione
uneasily.
“No,” said Harry at once.
“But where is he, then?”

There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so that Neville, Parvati,
and Lavender could not hear, “Maybe he’s not back yet. You know — from
his mission — the thing he was doing over the summer for Dumbledore.”
“Yeah  .  .  . yeah, that’ll be it,” said Ron, sounding reassured, but
Hermione bit her lip, looking up and down the staff table as though hoping
for some conclusive explanation of Hagrid’s absence.
“Who’s that?” she said sharply, pointing toward the middle of the staff
table.

Harry’s eyes followed hers. They lit first upon Professor Dumbledore,
sitting in his high-backed golden chair at the center of the long staff table,
wearing deep-purple robes scattered with silvery stars and a matching hat.
Dumbledore’s head was inclined toward the woman sitting next to him,
who was talking into his ear. She looked, Harry thought, like somebody’s
maiden aunt: squat, with short, curly, mouse-brown hair in which she had
placed a horrible pink Alice band that matched the fluffy pink cardigan she
wore over her robes. Then she turned her face slightly to take a sip from her
goblet and he saw, with a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a
pair of prominent, pouchy eyes.

“It’s that Umbridge woman!”
“Who?” said Hermione.
“She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!”
“Nice cardigan,” said Ron, smirking.
“She works for Fudge?” Hermione repeated, frowning. “What on earth’s
she doing here, then?”
“Dunno . . .”
Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed.
“No,” she muttered, “no, surely not . . .”

Harry did not understand what she was talking about but did not ask; his
attention had just been caught by Professor Grubbly-Plank who had just
appeared behind the staff table; she worked her way along to the very end
and took the seat that ought to have been Hagrid’s. That meant that the first
years must have crossed the lake and reached the castle, and sure enough, a
few seconds later, the doors from the entrance hall opened. A long line of
scared-looking first years entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who was
carrying a stool on which sat an ancient wizard’s hat, heavily patched and
darned with a wide rip near the frayed brim.

The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The first years lined up in
front of the staff table facing the rest of the students, and Professor
McGonagall placed the stool carefully in front of them, then stood back.
The first years’ faces glowed palely in the candlelight. A small boy right
in the middle of the row looked as though he was trembling. Harry recalled,
fleetingly, how terrified he had felt when he had stood there, waiting for the
unknown test that would determine to which House he belonged.

The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the rip near the hat’s
brim opened wide like a mouth and the Sorting Hat burst into song:

In times of old when I was new
And Hogwarts barely started
The founders of our noble school
Thought never to be parted:
United by a common goal,
They had the selfsame yearning,
To make the world’s best magic school
And pass along their learning.
“Together we will build and teach!”
The four good friends decided
And never did they dream that they
Might someday be divided,
For were there such friends anywhere
As Slytherin and Gryffindor?
Unless it was the second pair
Of Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw?
So how could it have gone so wrong?
How could such friendships fail?
Why, I was there and so can tell
The whole sad, sorry tale.
Said Slytherin, “We’ll teach just those
Whose ancestry is purest.”
Said Ravenclaw, “We’ll teach those whose
Intelligence is surest.”
Said Gryffindor, “We’ll teach all those
With brave deeds to their name.”
Said Hufflepuff, “I’ll teach the lot,
And treat them just the same.”
These differences caused little strife
When first they came to light,
For each of the four founders had
A House in which they might
Take only those they wanted, so,
For instance, Slytherin
Took only pure-blood wizards
Of great cunning, just like him,
And only those of sharpest mind
Were taught by Ravenclaw
While the bravest and the boldest
Went to daring Gryffindor.
Good Hufflepuff, she took the rest,
And taught them all she knew,
Thus the Houses and their founders
Retained friendships firm and true.
So Hogwarts worked in harmony
For several happy years,
But then discord crept among us
Feeding on our faults and fears.
The Houses that, like pillars four,
Had once held up our school,
Now turned upon each other and,
Divided, sought to rule.
And for a while it seemed the school
Must meet an early end,
What with dueling and with fighting
And the clash of friend on friend
And at last there came a morning
When old Slytherin departed
And though the fighting then died out
He left us quite downhearted.
And never since the founders four
Were whittled down to three
Have the Houses been united
As they once were meant to be.
And now the Sorting Hat is here
And you all know the score:
I sort you into Houses
Because that is what I’m for,
But this year I’ll go further,
Listen closely to my song:
Though condemned I am to split you
Still I worry that it’s wrong,
Though I must fulfill my duty
And must quarter every year
Still I wonder whether Sorting
May not bring the end I fear.
Oh, know the perils, read the signs,
The warning history shows,
For our Hogwarts is in danger
From external, deadly foes
And we must unite inside her
Or we’ll crumble from within.
I have told you, I have warned you. . . .
Let the Sorting now begin.

The hat became motionless once more; applause broke out, though it was
punctured, for the first time in Harry’s memory, with muttering and
whispers. All across the Great Hall students were exchanging remarks with
their neighbors and Harry, clapping along with everyone else, knew exactly
what they were talking about.

“Branched out a bit this year, hasn’t it?” said Ron, his eyebrows raised.
“Too right it has,” said Harry.
The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing the different
qualities looked for by each of the four Hogwarts Houses and its own role
in sorting them; Harry could not remember it ever trying to give the school
advice before.
“I wonder if it’s ever given warnings before?” said Hermione, sounding
slightly anxious.

“Yes, indeed,” said Nearly Headless Nick knowledgeably, leaning across
Neville toward her (Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable to have a
ghost lean through you). “The hat feels itself honor-bound to give the
school due warning whenever it feels —”
But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read out the list of first
years’ names, was giving the whispering students the sort of look that
scorches. Nearly Headless Nick placed a see-through finger to his lips and
sat primly upright again as the muttering came to an abrupt end. With a last
frowning look that swept the four House tables, Professor McGonagall
lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment and called out,
“Abercrombie, Euan.”

The terrified-looking boy Harry had noticed earlier stumbled forward and
put the hat on his head; it was only prevented from falling right down to his
shoulders by his very prominent ears. The hat considered for a moment,
then the rip near the brim opened again and shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!”
Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor House as Euan
Abercrombie staggered to their table and sat down, looking as though he
would like very much to sink through the floor and never be looked at
again.

Slowly the long line of first years thinned; in the pauses between the
names and the Sorting Hat’s decisions, Harry could hear Ron’s stomach
rumbling loudly. Finally, “Zeller, Rose” was sorted into Hufflepuff, and
Professor McGonagall picked up the hat and stool and marched them away
as Professor Dumbledore rose to his feet.
Harry was somehow soothed to see Dumbledore standing before them
all, whatever his recent bitter feelings toward his headmaster. Between the
absence of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish horses, he had felt
that his return to Hogwarts, so long anticipated, was full of unexpected
surprises like jarring notes in a familiar song. But this, at least, was how it
was supposed to be: their headmaster rising to greet them all before the
start-of-term feast.

“To our newcomers,” said Dumbledore in a ringing voice, his arms
stretched wide and a beaming smile on his lips, “welcome! To our old hands
— welcome back! There is a time for speech making, but this is not it. Tuck
in!”
There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of applause as
Dumbledore sat down neatly and threw his long beard over his shoulder so
as to keep it out of the way of his plate — for food had appeared out of
nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning under joints and pies
and dishes of vegetables, bread, sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice.
“Excellent,” said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, and he seized the
nearest plate of chops and began piling them onto his plate, watched
wistfully by Nearly Headless Nick.

“What were you saying before the Sorting?” Hermione asked the ghost.
“About the hat giving warnings?”
“Oh yes,” said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away from
Ron, who was now eating roast potatoes with almost indecent enthusiasm.
“Yes, I have heard the hat give several warnings before, always at times
when it detects periods of great danger for the school. And always, of
course, its advice is the same: Stand together, be strong from within.”
“Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat?” said Ron.
His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an achievement for him
to make any noise at all.

“I beg your pardon?” said Nearly Headless Nick politely, while
Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an enormous swallow and said, “How
can it know if the school’s in danger if it’s a hat?”
“I have no idea,” said Nearly Headless Nick. “Of course, it lives in
Dumbledore’s office, so I daresay it picks things up there.”
“And it wants all the Houses to be friends?” said Harry, looking over at
the Slytherin table, where Draco Malfoy was holding court. “Fat chance.”
“Well, now, you shouldn’t take that attitude,” said Nick reprovingly.
“Peaceful cooperation, that’s the key. We ghosts, though we belong to
separate Houses, maintain links of friendship. In spite of the
competitiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I would never dream of
seeking an argument with the Bloody Baron.”

“Only because you’re terrified of him,” said Ron.
Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted.
“Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, have never been
guilty of cowardice in my life! The noble blood that runs in my veins —”
“What blood?” asked Ron. “Surely you haven’t still got — ?”
“It’s a figure of speech!” said Nearly Headless Nick, now so annoyed his
head was trembling ominously on his partially severed neck. “I assume I am
still allowed to enjoy the use of whichever words I like, even if the
pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I am quite used to
students poking fun at my death, I assure you!”
“Nick, he wasn’t really laughing at you!” said Hermione, throwing a
furious look at Ron.

Unfortunately, Ron’s mouth was packed to exploding point again and all
he could manage was “node iddum eentup sechew,” which Nick did not
seem to think constituted an adequate apology. Rising into the air, he
straightened his feathered hat and swept away from them to the other end of
the table, coming to rest between the Creevey brothers, Colin and Dennis.
“Well done, Ron,” snapped Hermione.
“What?” said Ron indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow his
food. “I’m not allowed to ask a simple question?”
“Oh forget it,” said Hermione irritably, and the pair of them spent the rest
of the meal in huffy silence.

Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying to reconcile them;
he felt it was a better use of his time to eat his way steadily through his
steak-and-kidney pie, then a large plateful of his favorite treacle tart.
When all the students had finished eating and the noise level in the hall
was starting to creep upward again, Dumbledore got to his feet once more.
Talking ceased immediately as all turned to face the headmaster. Harry was
feeling pleasantly drowsy now. His four-poster bed was waiting somewhere
above, wonderfully warm and soft. . . .

“Well, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, I beg a
few moments of your attention for the usual start-of-term notices,” said
Dumbledore. “First years ought to know that the forest in the grounds is out
of bounds to students — and a few of our older students ought to know by
now too.” (Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged smirks.)
“Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he tells me is the four
hundred and sixty-second time, to remind you all that magic is not
permitted in corridors between classes, nor are a number of other things, all
of which can be checked on the extensive list now fastened to Mr. Filch’s
office door.

“We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to
welcome back Professor Grubbly-Plank, who will be taking Care of
Magical Creatures lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor
Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.”
There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic applause during
which Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged slightly panicked looks;
Dumbledore had not said for how long Grubbly-Plank would be teaching.
Dumbledore continued, “Tryouts for the House Quidditch teams will take
place on the —”

He broke off, looking inquiringly at Professor Umbridge. As she was not
much taller standing than sitting, there was a moment when nobody
understood why Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then Professor
Umbridge said, “Hem, hem,” and it became clear that she had got to her
feet and was intending to make a speech.

Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, then he sat back
down smartly and looked alertly at Professor Umbridge as though he
desired nothing better than to listen to her talk. Other members of staff were
not as adept at hiding their surprise. Professor Sprout’s eyebrows had
disappeared into her flyaway hair, and Professor McGonagall’s mouth was
as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No new teacher had ever interrupted
Dumbledore before. Many of the students were smirking; this woman
obviously did not know how things were done at Hogwarts.
“Thank you, Headmaster,” Professor Umbridge simpered, “for those kind
words of welcome.”

Her voice was high-pitched, breathy, and little-girlish and again, Harry
felt a powerful rush of dislike that he could not explain to himself; all he
knew was that he loathed everything about her, from her stupid voice to her
fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another little throat-clearing cough (“Hem,
hem”) and continued: “Well, it is lovely to be back at Hogwarts, I must
say!” She smiled, revealing very pointed teeth. “And to see such happy
little faces looking back at me!”

Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see looked happy; on
the contrary, they all looked rather taken aback at being addressed as though
they were five years old.
“I am very much looking forward to getting to know you all, and I’m
sure we’ll be very good friends!”
Students exchanged looks at this; some of them were barely concealing
grins.

“I’ll be her friend as long as I don’t have to borrow that cardigan,”
Parvati whispered to Lavender, and both of them lapsed into silent giggles.
Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again (“Hem, hem”), but when
she continued, some of the breathiness had vanished from her voice. She
sounded much more businesslike and now her words had a dull learned-byheart sound to them.
“The Ministry of Magic has always considered the education of young
witches and wizards to be of vital importance. The rare gifts with which
you were born may come to nothing if not nurtured and honed by careful
instruction. The ancient skills unique to the Wizarding community must be
passed down through the generations lest we lose them forever. The
treasure trove of magical knowledge amassed by our ancestors must be
guarded, replenished, and polished by those who have been called to the
noble profession of teaching.”

Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little bow to her fellow staff
members, none of whom bowed back. Professor McGonagall’s dark
eyebrows had contracted so that she looked positively hawklike, and Harry
distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance with Professor Sprout as
Umbridge gave another little “Hem, hem” and went on with her speech.
“Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has brought something
new to the weighty task of governing this historic school, and that is as it
should be, for without progress there will be stagnation and decay. There
again, progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged, for our tried and
tested traditions often require no tinkering. A balance, then, between old
and new, between permanence and change, between tradition and
innovation . . .”

Harry found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his brain was slipping in
and out of tune. The quiet that always filled the Hall when Dumbledore was
speaking was breaking up as students put their heads together, whispering
and giggling. Over at the Ravenclaw table, Cho Chang was chatting
animatedly with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Luna Lovegood
had got out The Quibbler again. Meanwhile at the Hufflepuff table, Ernie
Macmillan was one of the few still staring at Professor Umbridge, but he
was glassy-eyed and Harry was sure he was only pretending to listen in an
attempt to live up to the new prefect’s badge gleaming on his chest.

Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the restlessness of her
audience. Harry had the impression that a full-scale riot could have broken
out under her nose and she would have plowed on with her speech. The
teachers, however, were still listening very attentively, and Hermione
seemed to be drinking in every word Umbridge spoke, though judging by
her expression, they were not at all to her taste.

“. . . because some changes will be for the better, while others will come,
in the fullness of time, to be recognized as errors of judgment. Meanwhile,
some old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas others, outmoded
and outworn, must be abandoned. Let us move forward, then, into a new era
of openness, effectiveness, and accountability, intent on preserving what
ought to be preserved, perfecting what needs to be perfected, and pruning
wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited.”

She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed his lead, though
Harry noticed that several of them brought their hands together only once or
twice before stopping. A few students joined in, but most had been taken
unawares by the end of the speech, not having listened to more than a few
words of it, and before they could start applauding properly, Dumbledore
had stood up again.
“Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was most
illuminating,” he said, bowing to her. “Now — as I was saying, Quidditch
tryouts will be held . . .”

“Yes, it certainly was illuminating,” said Hermione in a low voice.
“You’re not telling me you enjoyed it?” Ron said quietly, turning a glazed
face upon Hermione. “That was about the dullest speech I’ve ever heard,
and I grew up with Percy.”
“I said illuminating, not enjoyable,” said Hermione. “It explained a lot.”
“Did it?” said Harry in surprise. “Sounded like a load of waffle to me.”
“There was some important stuff hidden in the waffle,” said Hermione
grimly.

“Was there?” said Ron blankly.
“How about ‘progress for progress’s sake must be discouraged’? How
about ‘pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited’?”
“Well, what does that mean?” said Ron impatiently.
“I’ll tell you what it means,” said Hermione ominously. “It means the
Ministry’s interfering at Hogwarts.”
There was a great clattering and banging all around them; Dumbledore
had obviously just dismissed the school, because everyone was standing up
ready to leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking flustered.
“Ron, we’re supposed to show the first years where to go!”
“Oh yeah,” said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. “Hey — hey you lot!
Midgets!”

“Ron!”
“Well, they are, they’re titchy . . .”
“I know, but you can’t call them midgets.  .  .  . First years!” Hermione
called commandingly along the table. “This way, please!”
A group of new students walked shyly up the gap between the Gryffindor
and Hufflepuff tables, all of them trying hard not to lead the group. They
did indeed seem very small; Harry was sure he had not appeared that young
when he had arrived here. He grinned at them. A blond boy next to Euan
Abercrombie looked petrified, nudged Euan, and whispered something in
his ear. Euan Abercrombie looked equally frightened and stole a horrified
look at Harry, who felt the grin slide off his face like Stinksap.

“See you later,” he said to Ron and Hermione and he made his way out of
the Great Hall alone, doing everything he could to ignore more whispering,
staring, and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes fixed ahead as he wove
his way through the crowd in the entrance hall, then he hurried up the
marble staircase, took a couple of concealed shortcuts, and had soon left
most of the crowds behind.

He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought angrily, as he walked
through much emptier upstairs corridors. Of course everyone was staring at
him: He had emerged from the Triwizard maze two months ago clutching
the dead body of a fellow student and claiming to have seen Lord
Voldemort return to power. There had not been time last term to explain
himself before everyone went home, even if he had felt up to giving the
whole school a detailed account of the terrible events in that graveyard.

He had reached the end of the corridor to the Gryffindor common room
and had come to a halt in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady before he
realized that he did not know the new password.
“Er . . .” he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, who smoothed the
folds of her pink satin dress and looked sternly back at him.
“No password, no entrance,” she said loftily.

“Harry, I know it!” someone panted from behind him, and he turned to
see Neville jogging toward him. “Guess what it is? I’m actually going to be
able to remember it for once —” He waved the stunted little cactus he had
shown them on the train. “Mimbulus mimbletonia!”
“Correct,” said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung open toward them
like a door, revealing a circular hole in the wall behind, through which
Harry and Neville now climbed.

The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever, a cozy
circular tower room full of dilapidated squashy armchairs and rickety old
tables. A fire was crackling merrily in the grate and a few people were
warming their hands before going up to their dormitories; on the other side
of the room Fred and George Weasley were pinning something up on the
notice board. Harry waved good night to them and headed straight for the
door to the boys’ dormitories; he was not in much of a mood for talking at
the moment. Neville followed him.

Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the dormitory first and
were in the process of covering the walls beside their beds with posters and
photographs. They had been talking as Harry pushed open the door but
stopped abruptly the moment they saw him. Harry wondered whether they
had been talking about him, then whether he was being paranoid.
“Hi,” he said, moving across to his own trunk and opening it.
“Hey, Harry,” said Dean, who was putting on a pair of pajamas in the
West Ham colors. “Good holiday?”

“Not bad,” muttered Harry, as a true account of his holiday would have
taken most of the night to relate and he could not face it. “You?”
“Yeah, it was okay,” chuckled Dean. “Better than Seamus’s anyway, he
was just telling me.”

“Why, what happened, Seamus?” Neville asked as he placed his
Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his bedside cabinet.
Seamus did not answer immediately; he was making rather a meal of
ensuring that his poster of the Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team was quite
straight. Then he said, with his back still turned to Harry, “Me mam didn’t
want me to come back.”

“What?” said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off his robes.
“She didn’t want me to come back to Hogwarts.”
Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his own pajamas out of
his trunk, still not looking at Harry.
“But — why?” said Harry, astonished. He knew that Seamus’s mother
was a witch and could not understand, therefore, why she should have come
over so Dursley-ish.

Seamus did not answer until he had finished buttoning his pajamas.
“Well,” he said in a measured voice, “I suppose . . . because of you.”
“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly. His heart was beating rather
fast. He felt vaguely as though something was closing in on him.
“Well,” said Seamus again, still avoiding Harry’s eyes, “she . . . er . . .
well, it’s not just you, it’s Dumbledore too . . .”
“She believes the Daily Prophet?” said Harry. “She thinks I’m a liar and
Dumbledore’s an old fool?”

Seamus looked up at him. “Yeah, something like that.”
Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down onto his bedside table,
pulled off his robes, stuffed them angrily into his trunk, and pulled on his
pajamas. He was sick of it; sick of being the person who was stared at and
talked about all the time. If any of them knew, if any of them had the
faintest idea what it felt like to be the one all these things had happened
to . . . Mrs. Finnigan had no idea, the stupid woman, he thought savagely.
He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed around him, but
before he could do so, Seamus said, “Look . . . what did happen that night
when . . . you know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?”

Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. Dean, who had
been bending over his trunk, trying to retrieve a slipper, went oddly still and
Harry knew he was listening hard.
“What are you asking me for?” Harry retorted. “Just read the Daily
Prophet like your mother, why don’t you? That’ll tell you all you need to
know.”

“Don’t you have a go at my mother,” snapped Seamus.
“I’ll have a go at anyone who calls me a liar,” said Harry.
“Don’t talk to me like that!”
“I’ll talk to you how I want,” said Harry, his temper rising so fast he
snatched his wand back from his bedside table. “If you’ve got a problem
sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can be moved,
stop your mummy worrying —”

“Leave my mother out of this, Potter!”
“What’s going on?”
Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes traveled from Harry,
who was kneeling on his bed with his wand pointing at Seamus, to Seamus,
who was standing there with his fists raised.
“He’s having a go at my mother!” Seamus yelled.
“What?” said Ron. “Harry wouldn’t do that — we met your mother, we
liked her . . .”

“That’s before she started believing every word the stinking Daily
Prophet writes about me!” said Harry at the top of his voice.
“Oh,” said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face.
“Oh . . . right.”
“You know what?” said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous
look. “He’s right, I don’t want to share a dormitory with him anymore, he’s
a madman.”
“That’s out of order, Seamus,” said Ron, whose ears were starting to
glow red, always a danger sign.
“Out of order, am I?” shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron was
turning paler. “You believe all the rubbish he’s come out with about YouKnow-Who, do you, you reckon he’s telling the truth?”
“Yeah, I do!” said Ron angrily.

“Then you’re mad too,” said Seamus in disgust.
“Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, I’m also a prefect!” said Ron,
jabbing himself in the chest with a finger. “So unless you want detention,
watch your mouth!”

Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention would be a
reasonable price to pay to say what was going through his mind; but with a
noise of contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and pulled the
hangings shut with such violence that they were ripped from the bed and
fell in a dusty pile to the floor. Ron glared at Seamus, then looked at Dean
and Neville.

“Anyone else’s parents got a problem with Harry?” he said aggressively.
“My parents are Muggles, mate,” said Dean, shrugging. “They don’t
know nothing about no deaths at Hogwarts, because I’m not stupid enough
to tell them.”

“You don’t know my mother, she’ll weasel anything out of anyone!”
Seamus snapped at him. “Anyway, your parents don’t get the Daily
Prophet, they don’t know our headmaster’s been sacked from the
Wizengamot and the International Confederation of Wizards because he’s
losing his marbles —”
“My gran says that’s rubbish,” piped up Neville. “She says it’s the Daily
Prophet that’s going downhill, not Dumbledore. She’s canceled our
subscription. We believe Harry,” he said simply. He climbed into bed and
pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them at Seamus.
“My gran’s always said You-Know-Who would come back one day. She
says if Dumbledore says he’s back, he’s back.”

Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody else said anything.
Seamus got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings, and vanished behind
them. Dean got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent. Neville, who appeared
to have nothing more to say either, was gazing fondly at his moonlit cactus.
Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled around the next bed,
putting his things away. He felt shaken by the argument with Seamus,
whom he had always liked very much. How many more people were going
to suggest that he was lying or unhinged?

Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as first the Wizengamot,
then the International Confederation of Wizards had thrown him from their
ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had stopped Dumbledore getting
in touch with him for months? The two of them were in this together, after
all; Dumbledore had believed Harry, announced his version of events to the
whole school and then to the wider Wizarding community. Anyone who
thought Harry was a liar had to think that Dumbledore was too or else that
Dumbledore had been hoodwinked. . . .
They’ll know we’re right in the end, thought Harry miserably, as Ron got
into bed and extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. But he wondered
how many attacks like Seamus’s he would have to endure before that time
came.


CHAPTER  TWELVE

PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE

eamus dressed at top speed next morning and left the dormitory before
Harry had even put on his socks.
“Does he think he’ll turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me too
long?” asked Harry loudly, as the hem of Seamus’s robes whipped out of
sight.
“Don’t worry about it, Harry,” Dean muttered, hoisting his schoolbag
onto his shoulder. “He’s just  .  .  .” But apparently he was unable to say
exactly what Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward pause followed him
out of the room.

Neville and Ron both gave Harry it’s-his-problem-not-yours looks, but
Harry was not much consoled. How much more of this was he going to
have to take?
“What’s the matter?” asked Hermione five minutes later, catching up
with Harry and Ron halfway across the common room as they all headed
toward breakfast. “You look absolutely — oh for heaven’s sake.”
She was staring at the common room notice board, where a large new
sign had been put up.
GALLONS OF GALLEONS!

Pocket money failing to keep pace with your outgoings?
Like to earn a little extra gold?
Contact Fred and George Weasley, Gryffindor common room, for
simple, part-time, virtually painless jobs
(WE REGRET THAT ALL WORK IS UNDERTAKEN AT APPLICANT’S OWN RISK)
“They are the limit,” said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign, which
Fred and George had pinned up over a poster giving the date of the first
Hogsmeade weekend in October. “We’ll have to talk to them, Ron.”
Ron looked positively alarmed.

“Why?”
“Because we’re prefects!” said Hermione, as they climbed out through
the portrait hole. “It’s up to us to stop this kind of thing!”
Ron said nothing; Harry could tell from his glum expression that the
prospect of stopping Fred and George doing exactly what they liked was not
one that he found inviting.
“Anyway, what’s up, Harry?” Hermione continued, as they walked down
a flight of stairs lined with portraits of old witches and wizards, all of whom
ignored them, being engrossed in their own conversation. “You look really
angry about something.”
“Seamus reckons Harry’s lying about You-Know-Who,” said Ron
succinctly, when Harry did not respond.
Hermione, whom Harry had expected to react angrily on his behalf,
sighed.

“Yes, Lavender thinks so too,” she said gloomily.
“Been having a nice little chat with her about whether or not I’m a lying,
attention-seeking prat, have you?” Harry said loudly.
“No,” said Hermione calmly, “I told her to keep her big fat mouth shut
about you, actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jumping
down Ron’s and my throats, Harry, because if you haven’t noticed, we’re on
your side.”
There was a short pause.
“Sorry,” said Harry in a low voice.

“That’s quite all right,” said Hermione with dignity. Then she shook her
head. “Don’t you remember what Dumbledore said at the end-of-term feast
last year?”
Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly, and Hermione sighed again.
“About You-Know-Who. He said, ‘His gift for spreading discord and
enmity is very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong bond
of friendship and trust —’”
“How do you remember stuff like that?” asked Ron, looking at her in
admiration.

“I listen, Ron,” said Hermione with a touch of asperity.
“So do I, but I still couldn’t tell you exactly what —”
“The point,” Hermione pressed on loudly, “is that this sort of thing is
exactly what Dumbledore was talking about. You-Know-Who’s only been
back two months, and we’ve started fighting among ourselves. And the
Sorting Hat’s warning was the same — stand together, be united —”
“And Harry said it last night,” retorted Ron, “if that means we’re
supposed to get matey with the Slytherins, fat chance.”
“Well, I think it’s a pity we’re not trying for a bit of inter-House unity,”
said Hermione crossly.

They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A line of fourth-year
Ravenclaws was crossing the entrance hall; they caught sight of Harry and
hurried to form a tighter group, as though frightened he might attack
stragglers.
“Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends with people like
that,” said Harry sarcastically.
They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, looking instinctively
at the staff table as they entered. Professor Grubbly-Plank was chatting to
Professor Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid was once again
conspicuous only by his absence. The enchanted ceiling above them echoed
Harry’s mood; it was a miserable rain-cloud gray.
“Dumbledore didn’t even mention how long that Grubbly-Plank woman’s
staying,” he said, as they made their way across to the Gryffindor table.
“Maybe . . .” said Hermione thoughtfully.
“What?” said both Harry and Ron together.

“Well . . . maybe he didn’t want to draw attention to Hagrid not being
here.”
“What d’you mean, draw attention to it?” said Ron, half laughing. “How
could we not notice?”
Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with long, braided hair
had marched up to Harry.
“Hi, Angelina.”
“Hi,” she said briskly, “good summer?” And without waiting for an
answer, “Listen, I’ve been made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.”
“Nice one,” said Harry, grinning at her; he suspected Angelina’s pep talks
might not be as long-winded as Oliver Wood’s had been, which could only
be an improvement.

“Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Oliver’s left. Tryouts are on
Friday at five o’clock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then we
can see how the new person’ll fit in.”
“Okay,” said Harry, and she smiled at him and departed.

“I’d forgotten Wood had left,” said Hermione vaguely, sitting down
beside Ron and pulling a plate of toast toward her. “I suppose that will
make quite a difference to the team?”
“I s’pose,” said Harry, taking the bench opposite. “He was a good
Keeper . . .”

“Still, it won’t hurt to have some new blood, will it?” said Ron.
With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came soaring in through
the upper windows. They descended all over the Hall, bringing letters and
packages to their owners and showering the breakfasters with droplets of
water; it was clearly raining hard outside. Hedwig was nowhere to be seen,
but Harry was hardly surprised; his only correspondent was Sirius, and he
doubted Sirius would have anything new to tell him after only twenty-four
hours apart. Hermione, however, had to move her orange juice aside
quickly to make way for a large damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily
Prophet in its beak.

“What are you still getting that for?” said Harry irritably, thinking of
Seamus, as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owl’s leg
and it took off again. “I’m not bothering . . . load of rubbish.”
“It’s best to know what the enemy are saying,” said Hermione darkly, and
she unfurled the newspaper and disappeared behind it, not emerging until
Harry and Ron had finished eating.
“Nothing,” she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it down
by her plate. “Nothing about you or Dumbledore or anything.”
Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table handing out
schedules.

“Look at today!” groaned Ron. “History of Magic, double Potions,
Divination, and double Defense Against the Dark Arts . . . Binns, Snape,
Trelawney, and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred and
George’d hurry up and get those Skiving Snackboxes sorted . . .”
“Do mine ears deceive me?” said Fred, arriving with George and
squeezing onto the bench beside Harry. “Hogwarts prefects surely don’t
wish to skive off lessons?”

“Look what we’ve got today,” said Ron grumpily, shoving his schedule
under Fred’s nose. “That’s the worst Monday I’ve ever seen.”
“Fair point, little bro,” said Fred, scanning the column. “You can have a
bit of Nosebleed Nougat cheap if you like.”
“Why’s it cheap?” said Ron suspiciously.
“Because you’ll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we haven’t got an
antidote yet,” said George, helping himself to a kipper.
“Cheers,” said Ron moodily, pocketing his schedule, “but I think I’ll take
the lessons.”

“And speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes,” said Hermione, eyeing
Fred and George beadily, “you can’t advertise for testers on the Gryffindor
notice board.”
“Says who?” said George, looking astonished.
“Says me,” said Hermione. “And Ron.”
“Leave me out of it,” said Ron hastily.
Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered.
“You’ll be singing a different tune soon enough, Hermione,” said Fred,
thickly buttering a crumpet. “You’re starting your fifth year, you’ll be
begging us for a Snackbox before long.”
“And why would starting fifth year mean I want a Skiving Snackbox?”
asked Hermione.

“Fifth year’s O.W.L. year,” said George.
“So?”
“So you’ve got your exams coming up, haven’t you? They’ll be keeping
your noses so hard to that grindstone they’ll be rubbed raw,” said Fred with
satisfaction.
“Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to O.W.L.s,” said
George happily. “Tears and tantrums  .  .  . Patricia Stimpson kept coming
over faint . . .”
“Kenneth Towler came out in boils, d’you remember?” said Fred
reminiscently.

“That’s ’cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his pajamas,” said George.
“Oh yeah,” said Fred, grinning. “I’d forgotten.  .  .  . Hard to keep track
sometimes, isn’t it?”
“Anyway, it’s a nightmare of a year, the fifth,” said George. “If you care
about exam results anyway. Fred and I managed to keep our spirits up
somehow.”
“Yeah . . . you got, what was it, three O.W.L.s each?” said Ron.
“Yep,” said Fred unconcernedly. “But we feel our futures lie outside the
world of academic achievement.”

“We seriously debated whether we were going to bother coming back for
our seventh year,” said George brightly, “now that we’ve got —”
He broke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew George had been
about to mention the Triwizard winnings he had given them.
“— now that we’ve got our O.W.L.s,” George said hastily. “I mean, do
we really need N.E.W.T.s? But we didn’t think Mum could take us leaving
school early, not on top of Percy turning out to be the world’s biggest prat.”
“We’re not going to waste our last year here, though,” said Fred, looking
affectionately around at the Great Hall. “We’re going to use it to do a bit of
market research, find out exactly what the average Hogwarts student
requires from his joke shop, carefully evaluate the results of our research,
and then produce the products to fit the demand.”
“But where are you going to get the gold to start a joke shop?” asked
Hermione skeptically. “You’re going to need all the ingredients and
materials — and premises too, I suppose . . .”
Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he deliberately dropped
his fork and dived down to retrieve it. He heard Fred say overhead, “Ask us
no questions and we’ll tell you no lies, Hermione. C’mon, George, if we get
there early we might be able to sell a few Extendable Ears before
Herbology.”

Harry emerged from under the table to see Fred and George walking
away, each carrying a stack of toast.
“What did that mean?” said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron. “‘Ask
us no questions . . . ’ Does that mean they’ve already got some gold to start
a joke shop?”
“You know, I’ve been wondering about that,” said Ron, his brow
furrowed. “They bought me a new set of dress robes this summer, and I
couldn’t understand where they got the Galleons . . .”
Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation out of these
dangerous waters.
“D’you reckon it’s true this year’s going to be really tough? Because of
the exams?”

“Oh yeah,” said Ron. “Bound to be, isn’t it? O.W.L.s are really
important, affect the jobs you can apply for and everything. We get career
advice too, later this year, Bill told me. So you can choose what N.E.W.T.s
you want to do next year.”
“D’you know what you want to do after Hogwarts?” Harry asked the
other two, as they left the Great Hall shortly afterward and set off toward
their History of Magic classroom.
“Not really,” said Ron slowly. “Except . . . well . . .”
He looked slightly sheepish.
“What?” Harry urged him.
“Well, it’d be cool to be an Auror,” said Ron in an offhand voice.
“Yeah, it would,” said Harry fervently.
“But they’re, like, the elite,” said Ron. “You’ve got to be really good.
What about you, Hermione?”
“I don’t know,” said Hermione. “I think I’d really like to do something
worthwhile.”
“An Auror’s worthwhile!” said Harry.

“Yes, it is, but it’s not the only worthwhile thing,” said Hermione
thoughtfully. “I mean, if I could take S.P.E.W. further . . .”
Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each other.
History of Magic was by common consent the most boring subject ever
devised by Wizard-kind. Professor Binns, their ghost teacher, had a wheezy,
droning voice that was almost guaranteed to cause severe drowsiness within
ten minutes, five in warm weather. He never varied the form of their
lessons, but lectured them without pausing while they took notes, or rather,
gazed sleepily into space. Harry and Ron had so far managed to scrape
passes in this subject only by copying Hermione’s notes before exams; she
alone seemed able to resist the soporific power of Binns’s voice.

Today they suffered three-quarters of an hour’s droning on the subject of
giant wars. Harry heard just enough within the first ten minutes to
appreciate dimly that in another teacher’s hands this subject might have
been mildly interesting, but then his brain disengaged, and he spent the
remaining thirty-five minutes playing hangman on a corner of his
parchment with Ron, while Hermione shot them filthy looks out of the
corner of her eye.

“How would it be,” she asked them coldly as they left the classroom for
break (Binns drifting away through the blackboard), “if I refused to lend
you my notes this year?”
“We’d fail our O.W.L.s,” said Ron. “If you want that on your conscience,
Hermione . . .”
“Well, you’d deserve it,” she snapped. “You don’t even try to listen to
him, do you?”
“We do try,” said Ron. “We just haven’t got your brains or your memory
or your concentration — you’re just cleverer than we are — is it nice to rub
it in?”
“Oh, don’t give me that rubbish,” said Hermione, but she looked slightly
mollified as she led the way out into the damp courtyard.
A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people standing in huddles
around the yard looked blurred at the edges. Harry, Ron, and Hermione
chose a secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony, turning up the
collars of their robes against the chilly September air and talking about
what Snape was likely to set them in the first lesson of the year. They had
got as far as agreeing that it was likely to be something extremely difficult,
just to catch them off guard after a two-month holiday, when someone
walked around the corner toward them.
“Hello, Harry!”

It was Cho Chang and what was more, she was on her own again. This
was most unusual: Cho was almost always surrounded by a gang of
giggling girls; Harry remembered the agony of trying to get her by herself
to ask her to the Yule Ball.
“Hi,” said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least you’re not covered in
Stinksap this time, he told himself. Cho seemed to be thinking along the
same lines.

“You got that stuff off, then?”
“Yeah,” said Harry, trying to grin as though the memory of their last
meeting was funny as opposed to mortifying. “So did you . . . er . . . have a
good summer?”
The moment he had said this he wished he hadn’t: Cedric had been Cho’s
boyfriend and the memory of his death must have affected her holiday
almost as badly as it had affected Harry’s. . . . Something seemed to tauten
in her face, but she said, “Oh, it was all right, you know . . .”
“Is that a Tornados badge?” Ron demanded suddenly, pointing at the
front of Cho’s robes, to which a sky-blue badge emblazoned with a double
gold T was pinned. “You don’t support them, do you?”

“Yeah, I do,” said Cho.
“Have you always supported them, or just since they started winning the
league?” said Ron, in what Harry considered an unnecessarily accusatory
tone of voice.
“I’ve supported them since I was six,” said Cho coolly. “Anyway . . . see
you, Harry.”

She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was halfway across the
courtyard before rounding on Ron.
“You are so tactless!”
“What? I only asked her if —”
“Couldn’t you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her own?”
“So? She could’ve done, I wasn’t stopping —”
“What on earth were you attacking her about her Quidditch team for?”
“Attacking? I wasn’t attacking her, I was only —”
“Who cares if she supports the Tornados?”
“Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those badges only bought
them last season —”
“But what does it matter?”

“It means they’re not real fans, they’re just jumping on the bandwagon
—”
“That’s the bell,” said Harry listlessly, because Ron and Hermione were
bickering too loudly to hear it. They did not stop arguing all the way down
to Snape’s dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of time to reflect that between
Neville and Ron he would be lucky ever to have two minutes’ conversation
with Cho that he could look back on without wanting to leave the country.
And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining up outside Snape’s
classroom door, she had chosen to come and talk to him, hadn’t she? She
had been Cedric’s girlfriend; she could easily have hated Harry for coming
out of the Triwizard maze alive when Cedric had died, yet she was talking
to him in a perfectly friendly way, not as though she thought him mad, or a
liar, or in some horrible way responsible for Cedric’s death. . . . Yes, she
had definitely chosen to come and talk to him, and that made the second
time in two days  .  .  . and at this thought, Harry’s spirits rose. Even the
ominous sound of Snape’s dungeon door creaking open did not puncture the
small, hopeful bubble that seemed to have swelled in his chest. He filed into
the classroom behind Ron and Hermione and followed them to their usual
table at the back, ignoring the huffy, irritable noises now issuing from both
of them.

“Settle down,” said Snape coldly, shutting the door behind him.
There was no real need for the call to order; the moment the class had
heard the door close, quiet had fallen and all fidgeting stopped. Snape’s
mere presence was usually enough to ensure a class’s silence.
“Before we begin today’s lesson,” said Snape, sweeping over to his desk
and staring around at them all, “I think it appropriate to remind you that
next June you will be sitting an important examination, during which you
will prove how much you have learned about the composition and use of
magical potions. Moronic though some of this class undoubtedly are, I
expect you to scrape an ‘Acceptable’ in your O.W.L., or suffer my  .  .  .
displeasure.”

His gaze lingered this time upon Neville, who gulped.
“After this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with me,”
Snape went on. “I take only the very best into my N.E.W.T. Potions class,
which means that some of us will certainly be saying good-bye.”
His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry glared back, feeling a
grim pleasure at the idea that he would be able to give up Potions after fifth
year.

“But we have another year to go before that happy moment of farewell,”
said Snape softly, “so whether you are intending to attempt N.E.W.T. or not,
I advise all of you to concentrate your efforts upon maintaining the highpass level I have come to expect from my O.W.L. students.
“Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up at Ordinary
Wizarding Level: the Draught of Peace, a potion to calm anxiety and soothe
agitation. Be warned: If you are too heavy-handed with the ingredients you
will put the drinker into a heavy and sometimes irreversible sleep, so you
will need to pay close attention to what you are doing.” On Harry’s left,
Hermione sat up a little straighter, her expression one of the utmost
attentiveness. “The ingredients and method” — Snape flicked his wand —
“are on the blackboard” — (they appeared there) — “you will find
everything you need” — he flicked his wand again — “in the store
cupboard” — (the door of the said cupboard sprang open) — “you have an
hour and a half. . . . Start.”

Just as Harry, Ron, and Hermione had predicted, Snape could hardly
have set them a more difficult, fiddly potion. The ingredients had to be
added to the cauldron in precisely the right order and quantities; the mixture
had to be stirred exactly the right number of times, firstly in clockwise, then
in counterclockwise directions; the heat of the flames on which it was
simmering had to be lowered to exactly the right level for a specific number
of minutes before the final ingredient was added.
“A light silver vapor should now be rising from your potion,” called
Snape, with ten minutes left to go.

Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked desperately around the
dungeon. His own cauldron was issuing copious amounts of dark gray
steam; Ron’s was spitting green sparks. Seamus was feverishly prodding the
flames at the base of his cauldron with the tip of his wand, as they had gone
out. The surface of Hermione’s potion, however, was a shimmering mist of
silver vapor, and as Snape swept by he looked down his hooked nose at it
without comment, which meant that he could find nothing to criticize. At
Harry’s cauldron, however, Snape stopped, looking down at Harry with a
horrible smirk on his face.

“Potter, what is this supposed to be?”
The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up eagerly; they loved
hearing Snape taunt Harry.
“The Draught of Peace,” said Harry tensely.
“Tell me, Potter,” said Snape softly, “can you read?”
Draco Malfoy laughed.

“Yes, I can,” said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly around his wand.
“Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter.”
Harry squinted at the blackboard; it was not easy to make out the
instructions through the haze of multicolored steam now filling the
dungeon.

“‘Add powdered moonstone, stir three times counterclockwise, allow to
simmer for seven minutes, then add two drops of syrup of hellebore.’”
His heart sank. He had not added syrup of hellebore, but had proceeded
straight to the fourth line of the instructions after allowing his potion to
simmer for seven minutes.

“Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?”
“No,” said Harry very quietly.
“I beg your pardon?”
“No,” said Harry, more loudly. “I forgot the hellebore . . .”
“I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess is utterly worthless.
Evanesco.”

The contents of Harry’s potion vanished; he was left standing foolishly
beside an empty cauldron.
“Those of you who have managed to read the instructions, fill one flagon
with a sample of your potion, label it clearly with your name, and bring it
up to my desk for testing,” said Snape. “Homework: twelve inches of
parchment on the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion-making, to
be handed in on Thursday.”

While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry cleared away his
things, seething. His potion had been no worse than Ron’s, which was now
giving off a foul odor of bad eggs, or Neville’s, which had achieved the
consistency of just-mixed cement and which Neville was now having to
gouge out of his cauldron, yet it was he, Harry, who would be receiving
zero marks for the day’s work. He stuffed his wand back into his bag and
slumped down onto his seat, watching everyone else march up to Snape’s
desk with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the bell rang, Harry
was first out of the dungeon and had already started his lunch by the time
Ron and Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceiling had turned an
even murkier gray during the morning. Rain was lashing the high windows.
“That was really unfair,” said Hermione consolingly, sitting down next to
Harry and helping herself to shepherd’s pie. “Your potion wasn’t nearly as
bad as Goyle’s, when he put it in his flagon the whole thing shattered and
set his robes on fire.”

“Yeah, well,” said Harry, glowering at his plate, “since when has Snape
ever been fair to me?”
Neither of the others answered; all three of them knew that Snape and
Harry’s mutual enmity had been absolute from the moment Harry had set
foot in Hogwarts.
“I did think he might be a bit better this year,” said Hermione in a
disappointed voice. “I mean  .  .  . you know  .  .  .” She looked carefully
around; there were half a dozen empty seats on either side of them and
nobody was passing the table. “. . . Now he’s in the Order and everything.”
“Poisonous toadstools don’t change their spots,” said Ron sagely.
“Anyway, I’ve always thought Dumbledore was cracked trusting Snape,
where’s the evidence he ever really stopped working for You-Know-Who?”
“I think Dumbledore’s probably got plenty of evidence, even if he
doesn’t share it with you, Ron,” snapped Hermione.

“Oh, shut up, the pair of you,” said Harry heavily, as Ron opened his
mouth to argue back. Hermione and Ron both froze, looking angry and
offended. “Can’t you give it a rest?” he said. “You’re always having a go at
each other, it’s driving me mad.” And abandoning his shepherd’s pie, he
swung his schoolbag back over his shoulder and left them sitting there.
He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a time, past the many
students hurrying toward lunch. The anger that had just flared so
unexpectedly still blazed inside him, and the vision of Ron and Hermione’s
shocked faces afforded him a sense of deep satisfaction. Serve them right,
he thought. Why can’t they give it a rest? . . . Bickering all the time . . . It’s
enough to drive anyone up the wall. . . .

He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight on a landing; Sir
Cadogan drew his sword and brandished it fiercely at Harry, who ignored
him.

“Come back, you scurvy dog, stand fast and fight!” yelled Sir Cadogan in
a muffled voice from behind his visor, but Harry merely walked on, and
when Sir Cadogan attempted to follow him by running into a neighboring
picture, he was rebuffed by its inhabitant, a large and angry-looking
wolfhound.

Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone underneath the
trapdoor at the top of North Tower, and consequently he was the first to
ascend the silver ladder that led to Sybill Trelawney’s classroom when the
bell rang.

Divination was Harry’s least favorite class after Potions, which was due
mainly to Professor Trelawney’s habit of predicting his premature death
every few lessons. A thin woman, heavily draped in shawls and glittering
with strings of beads, she always reminded Harry of some kind of insect,
with her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes. She was busy putting copies
of battered, leather-bound books on each of the spindly little tables with
which her room was littered when Harry entered the room, but so dim was
the light cast by the lamps covered by scarves and the low-burning, sicklyscented fire that she appeared not to notice him as he took a seat in the
shadows. The rest of the class arrived over the next five minutes. Ron
emerged from the trapdoor, looked around carefully, spotted Harry and
made directly for him, or as directly as he could while having to wend his
way between tables, chairs, and overstuffed poufs.

“Hermione and me have stopped arguing,” he said, sitting down beside
Harry.
“Good,” grunted Harry.
“But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you stopped taking out
your temper on us,” said Ron.
“I’m not —”
“I’m just passing on the message,” said Ron, talking over him. “But I
reckon she’s right. It’s not our fault how Seamus and Snape treat you.”
“I never said it —”

“Good day,” said Professor Trelawney in her usual misty, dreamy voice,
and Harry broke off, feeling both annoyed and slightly ashamed of himself
again. “And welcome back to Divination. I have, of course, been following
your fortunes most carefully over the holidays, and am delighted to see that
you have all returned to Hogwarts safely — as, of course, I knew you
would.

“You will find on the tables before you copies of The Dream Oracle, by
Inigo Imago. Dream interpretation is a most important means of divining
the future and one that may very probably be tested in your O.W.L. Not, of
course, that I believe examination passes or failures are of the remotest
importance when it comes to the sacred art of divination. If you have the
Seeing Eye, certificates and grades matter very little. However, the
headmaster likes you to sit the examination, so . . .”
Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in no doubt that
Professor Trelawney considered her subject above such sordid matters as
examinations.

“Turn, please, to the introduction and read what Imago has to say on the
matter of dream interpretation. Then divide into pairs. Use The Dream
Oracle to interpret each other’s most recent dreams. Carry on.”
The one good thing to be said for this lesson was that it was not a double
period. By the time they had all finished reading the introduction of the
book, they had barely ten minutes left for dream interpretation. At the table
next to Harry and Ron, Dean had paired up with Neville, who immediately
embarked on a long-winded explanation of a nightmare involving a pair of
giant scissors wearing his grandmother’s best hat; Harry and Ron merely
looked at each other glumly.

“I never remember my dreams,” said Ron. “You say one.”
“You must remember one of them,” said Harry impatiently.
He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. He knew perfectly
well what his regular nightmare about a graveyard meant, he did not need
Ron or Professor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Oracle to tell him that. . . .
“Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the other night,” said Ron,
screwing up his face in an effort to remember. “What d’you reckon that
means?”

“Probably that you’re going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or
something,” said Harry, turning the pages of The Dream Oracle without
interest.
It was very dull work looking up bits of dreams in the Oracle and Harry
was not cheered up when Professor Trelawney set them the task of keeping
a dream diary for a month as homework. When the bell went, he and Ron
led the way back down the ladder, Ron grumbling loudly.
“D’you realize how much homework we’ve got already? Binns set us a
foot-and-a-half-long essay on giant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of
moonstones, and now we’ve got a month’s dream diary from Trelawney!
Fred and George weren’t wrong about O.W.L. year, were they? That
Umbridge woman had better not give us any . . .”

When they entered the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom they
found Professor Umbridge already seated at the teacher’s desk, wearing the
fluffy pink cardigan of the night before and the black velvet bow on top of
her head. Harry was again reminded forcibly of a large fly perched
unwisely on top of an even larger toad.
The class was quiet as it entered the room; Professor Umbridge was, as
yet, an unknown quantity and nobody knew yet how strict a disciplinarian
she was likely to be.
“Well, good afternoon!” she said when finally the whole class had sat
down.

A few people mumbled “Good afternoon,” in reply.
“Tut, tut,” said Professor Umbridge. “That won’t do, now, will it? I
should like you, please, to reply ‘Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge.’
One more time, please. Good afternoon, class!”
“Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,” they chanted back at her.
“There, now,” said Professor Umbridge sweetly. “That wasn’t too
difficult, was it? Wands away and quills out, please.”

Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks; the order “wands away” had
never yet been followed by a lesson they had found interesting. Harry
shoved his wand back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink, and
parchment. Professor Umbridge opened her handbag, extracted her own
wand, which was an unusually short one, and tapped the blackboard sharply
with it; words appeared on the board at once:

Defense Against the Dark Arts
A Return to Basic Principles
“Well now, your teaching in this subject has been rather disrupted and
fragmented, hasn’t it?” stated Professor Umbridge, turning to face the class
with her hands clasped neatly in front of her. “The constant changing of
teachers, many of whom do not seem to have followed any Ministryapproved curriculum, has unfortunately resulted in your being far below the
standard we would expect to see in your O.W.L. year.

“You will be pleased to know, however, that these problems are now to
be rectified. We will be following a carefully structured, theory-centered,
Ministry-approved course of defensive magic this year. Copy down the
following, please.”
She rapped the blackboard again; the first message vanished and was
replaced by:

Course aims:

1. Understanding the principles underlying defensive magic.
2. Learning to recognize situations in which defensive magic can
legally be used.
3. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context for practical use.

For a couple of minutes the room was full of the sound of scratching
quills on parchment. When everyone had copied down Professor
Umbridge’s three course aims she said, “Has everybody got a copy of
Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?”
There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the class.
“I think we’ll try that again,” said Professor Umbridge. “When I ask you
a question, I should like you to reply ‘Yes, Professor Umbridge,’ or ‘No,
Professor Umbridge.’ So, has everyone got a copy of Defensive Magical
Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?”

“Yes, Professor Umbridge,” rang through the room.
“Good,” said Professor Umbridge. “I should like you to turn to page five
and read chapter one, ‘Basics for Beginners.’ There will be no need to talk.”
Professor Umbridge left the blackboard and settled herself in the chair
behind the teacher’s desk, observing them all with those pouchy toad’s
eyes. Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive Magical Theory
and started to read.

It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to Professor Binns. He
felt his concentration sliding away from him; he had soon read the same
line half a dozen times without taking in more than the first few words.
Several silent minutes passed. Next to him, Ron was absentmindedly
turning his quill over and over in his fingers, staring at the same spot on the
page. Harry looked right and received a surprise to shake him out of his
torpor. Hermione had not even opened her copy of Defensive Magical
Theory. She was staring fixedly at Professor Umbridge with her hand in the
air.

Harry could not remember Hermione ever neglecting to read when
instructed to, or indeed resisting the temptation to open any book that came
under her nose. He looked at her questioningly, but she merely shook her
head slightly to indicate that she was not about to answer questions, and
continued to stare at Professor Umbridge, who was looking just as
resolutely in another direction.

After several more minutes had passed, however, Harry was not the only
one watching Hermione. The chapter they had been instructed to read was
so tedious that more and more people were choosing to watch Hermione’s
mute attempt to catch Professor Umbridge’s eye than to struggle on with
“Basics for Beginners.”
When more than half the class were staring at Hermione rather than at
their books, Professor Umbridge seemed to decide that she could ignore the
situation no longer.
“Did you want to ask something about the chapter, dear?” she asked
Hermione, as though she had only just noticed her.
“Not about the chapter, no,” said Hermione.
“Well, we’re reading just now,” said Professor Umbridge, showing her
small, pointed teeth. “If you have other queries we can deal with them at the
end of class.”

“I’ve got a query about your course aims,” said Hermione.
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows.
“And your name is — ?”
“Hermione Granger,” said Hermione.
“Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if you
read them through carefully,” said Professor Umbridge in a voice of
determined sweetness.
“Well, I don’t,” said Hermione bluntly. “There’s nothing written up there
about using defensive spells.”
There was a short silence in which many members of the class turned
their heads to frown at the three course aims still written on the blackboard.
“Using defensive spells?” Professor Umbridge repeated with a little
laugh. “Why, I can’t imagine any situation arising in my classroom that
would require you to use a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You surely aren’t
expecting to be attacked during class?”
“We’re not going to use magic?” Ron ejaculated loudly.
“Students raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class, Mr. —
?”

“Weasley,” said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air.
Professor Umbridge, smiling still more widely, turned her back on him.
Harry and Hermione immediately raised their hands too. Professor
Umbridge’s pouchy eyes lingered on Harry for a moment before she
addressed Hermione.
“Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something else?”
“Yes,” said Hermione. “Surely the whole point of Defense Against the
Dark Arts is to practice defensive spells?”
“Are you a Ministry-trained educational expert, Miss Granger?” asked
Professor Umbridge in her falsely sweet voice.
“No, but —”
“Well then, I’m afraid you are not qualified to decide what the ‘whole
point’ of any class is. Wizards much older and cleverer than you have
devised our new program of study. You will be learning about defensive
spells in a secure, risk-free way —”
“What use is that?” said Harry loudly. “If we’re going to be attacked it
won’t be in a —”

“Hand, Mr. Potter!” sang Professor Umbridge.
Harry thrust his fist in the air. Professor Umbridge promptly turned away
from him again, but now several other people had their hands up too.
“And your name is?” Professor Umbridge said to Dean.
“Dean Thomas.”
“Well, Mr. Thomas?”
“Well, it’s like Harry said, isn’t it?” said Dean. “If we’re going to be
attacked, it won’t be risk-free —”
“I repeat,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very irritating fashion at
Dean, “do you expect to be attacked during my classes?”
“No, but —”

Professor Umbridge talked over him.
“I do not wish to criticize the way things have been run in this school,”
she said, an unconvincing smile stretching her wide mouth, “but you have
been exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this class, very
irresponsible indeed — not to mention,” she gave a nasty little laugh,
“extremely dangerous half-breeds.”
“If you mean Professor Lupin,” piped up Dean Thomas angrily, “he was
the best we ever —”
“Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying — you have been introduced to
spells that have been complex, inappropriate to your age group, and
potentially lethal. You have been frightened into believing that you are
likely to meet Dark attacks every other day —”
“No we haven’t,” Hermione said, “we just —”
“Your hand is not up, Miss Granger!”

Hermione put up her hand; Professor Umbridge turned away from her.
“It is my understanding that my predecessor not only performed illegal
curses in front of you, he actually performed them on you —”
“Well, he turned out to be a maniac, didn’t he?” said Dean Thomas hotly.
“Mind you, we still learned loads —”
“Your hand is not up, Mr. Thomas!” trilled Professor Umbridge. “Now, it
is the view of the Ministry that a theoretical knowledge will be more than
sufficient to get you through your examination, which, after all, is what
school is all about. And your name is?” she added, staring at Parvati, whose
hand had just shot up.

“Parvati Patil, and isn’t there a practical bit in our Defense Against the
Dark Arts O.W.L.? Aren’t we supposed to show that we can actually do the
countercurses and things?”
“As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, there is no reason
why you should not be able to perform the spells under carefully controlled
examination conditions,” said Professor Umbridge dismissively.
“Without ever practicing them before?” said Parvati incredulously. “Are
you telling us that the first time we’ll get to do the spells will be during our
exam?”

“I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough —”
“And what good’s theory going to be in the real world?” said Harry
loudly, his fist in the air again.
Professor Umbridge looked up.
“This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world,” she said softly.
“So we’re not supposed to be prepared for what’s waiting out there?”
“There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter.”
“Oh yeah?” said Harry. His temper, which seemed to have been bubbling
just beneath the surface all day, was reaching boiling point.
“Who do you imagine wants to attack children like yourselves?” inquired
Professor Umbridge in a horribly honeyed voice.
“Hmm, let’s think . . .” said Harry in a mock thoughtful voice, “maybe
Lord Voldemort?”

Ron gasped; Lavender Brown uttered a little scream; Neville slipped
sideways off his stool. Professor Umbridge, however, did not flinch. She
was staring at Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on her face.
“Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter.”
The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was staring at either
Umbridge or Harry.
“Now, let me make a few things quite plain.”
Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned toward them, her stubbyfingered hands splayed on her desk.
“You have been told that a certain Dark wizard has returned from the
dead —”

“He wasn’t dead,” said Harry angrily, “but yeah, he’s returned!”
“Mr.-Potter-you-have-already-lost-your-House-ten-points-do-not-makematters-worse-for-yourself,” said Professor Umbridge in one breath without
looking at him. “As I was saying, you have been informed that a certain
Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a lie.”
“It is NOT a lie!” said Harry. “I saw him, I fought him!”
“Detention, Mr. Potter!” said Professor Umbridge triumphantly.

“Tomorrow evening. Five o’clock. My office. I repeat, this is a lie. The
Ministry of Magic guarantees that you are not in danger from any Dark
wizard. If you are still worried, by all means come and see me outside class
hours. If someone is alarming you with fibs about reborn Dark wizards, I
would like to hear about it. I am here to help. I am your friend. And now,
you will kindly continue your reading. Page five, ‘Basics for Beginners.’”
Professor Umbridge sat down behind her desk again. Harry, however,
stood up. Everyone was staring at him; Seamus looked half-scared, halffascinated.
“Harry, no!” Hermione whispered in a warning voice, tugging at his
sleeve, but Harry jerked his arm out of her reach.

“So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own accord,
did he?” Harry asked, his voice shaking.
There was a collective intake of breath from the class, for none of them,
apart from Ron and Hermione, had ever heard Harry talk about what had
happened on the night that Cedric had died. They stared avidly from Harry
to Professor Umbridge, who had raised her eyes and was staring at him
without a trace of a fake smile on her face.
“Cedric Diggory’s death was a tragic accident,” she said coldly.
“It was murder,” said Harry. He could feel himself shaking. He had
hardly talked to anyone about this, least of all thirty eagerly listening
classmates. “Voldemort killed him, and you know it.”

Professor Umbridge’s face was quite blank. For a moment he thought she
was going to scream at him. Then she said, in her softest, most sweetly
girlish voice, “Come here, Mr. Potter, dear.”
He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and Hermione and up to the
teacher’s desk. He could feel the rest of the class holding its breath. He felt
so angry he did not care what happened next.
Professor Umbridge pulled a small roll of pink parchment out of her
handbag, stretched it out on the desk, dipped her quill into a bottle of ink,
and started scribbling, hunched over so that Harry could not see what she
was writing. Nobody spoke. After a minute or so she rolled up the
parchment and tapped it with her wand; it sealed itself seamlessly so that he
could not open it.

“Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear,” said Professor Umbridge,
holding out the note to him.
He took it from her without saying a word and left the room, not even
looking back at Ron and Hermione, and slamming the classroom door shut
behind him. He walked very fast along the corridor, the note to McGonagall
clutched tight in his hand, and turning a corner walked slap into Peeves the
Poltergeist, a wide-faced little man floating on his back in midair, juggling
several inkwells.

“Why, it’s Potty Wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, allowing two of the
inkwells to fall to the ground where they smashed and spattered the walls
with ink; Harry jumped backward out of the way with a snarl.
“Get out of it, Peeves.”
“Oooh, Crackpot’s feeling cranky,” said Peeves, pursuing Harry along
the corridor, leering as he zoomed along above him. “What is it this time,
my fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing visions? Speaking in” —
Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry — “tongues?”

“I said, leave me ALONE!” Harry shouted, running down the nearest
flight of stairs, but Peeves merely slid down the banister on his back beside
him.
“Oh, most think he’s barking, the Potty wee lad,
But some are more kindly and think he’s just sad,
But Peevesy knows better and says that he’s mad —”
“SHUT UP!”

A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall emerged from her
office looking grim and slightly harassed.
“What on earth are you shouting about, Potter?” she snapped, as Peeves
cackled gleefully and zoomed out of sight. “Why aren’t you in class?”
“I’ve been sent to see you,” said Harry stiffly.
“Sent? What do you mean, sent?”

He held out the note from Professor Umbridge. Professor McGonagall
took it from him, frowning, slit it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it
out, and began to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side behind their
square spectacles as she read what Umbridge had written, and with each
line they became narrower.
“Come in here, Potter.”

He followed her inside her study. The door closed automatically behind
him.
“Well?” said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. “Is this true?”
“Is what true?” Harry asked, rather more aggressively than he had
intended. “Professor?” he added in an attempt to sound more polite.
“Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?”
“Yes,” said Harry.
“You called her a liar?”
“Yes.”
“You told her He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back?”
“Yes.”

Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, frowning at Harry.
Then she said, “Have a biscuit, Potter.”
“Have — what?”
“Have a biscuit,” she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin of
cookies lying on top of one of the piles of papers on her desk. “And sit
down.”
There had been a previous occasion when Harry, expecting to be caned
by Professor McGonagall, had instead been appointed by her to the
Gryffindor Quidditch team. He sank into a chair opposite her and helped
himself to a Ginger Newt, feeling just as confused and wrong-footed as he
had done on that occasion.
Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umbridge’s note and looked
very seriously at Harry.
“Potter, you need to be careful.”
Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and stared at her. Her tone
of voice was not at all what he was used to; it was not brisk, crisp, and
stern; it was low and anxious and somehow much more human than usual.
“Misbehavior in Dolores Umbridge’s class could cost you much more
than House points and a detention.”
“What do you — ?”

“Potter, use your common sense,” snapped Professor McGonagall, with
an abrupt return to her usual manner. “You know where she comes from,
you must know to whom she is reporting.”
The bell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and all around came the
elephantine sounds of hundreds of students on the move.
“It says here she’s given you detention every evening this week, starting
tomorrow,” Professor McGonagall said, looking down at Umbridge’s note
again.
“Every evening this week!” Harry repeated, horrified. “But, Professor,
couldn’t you — ?”
“No, I couldn’t,” said Professor McGonagall flatly.
“But —”

“She is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You will
go to her room at five o’clock tomorrow for the first one. Just remember:
Tread carefully around Dolores Umbridge.”
“But I was telling the truth!” said Harry, outraged. “Voldemort’s back,
you know he is, Professor Dumbledore knows he is —”
“For heaven’s sake, Potter!” said Professor McGonagall, straightening
her glasses angrily (she had winced horribly when he had used Voldemort’s
name). “Do you really think this is about truth or lies? It’s about keeping
your head down and your temper under control!”
She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and he stood too.
“Have another biscuit,” she said irritably, thrusting the tin at him.
“No, thanks,” said Harry coldly.
“Don’t be ridiculous,” she snapped.

He took one.
“Thanks,” he said grudgingly.
“Didn’t you listen to Dolores Umbridge’s speech at the start-of-term
feast, Potter?”
“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah . . . she said . . . progress will be prohibited
or . . . well, it meant that . . . that the Ministry of Magic is trying to interfere
at Hogwarts.”
Professor McGonagall eyed him for a moment, then sniffed, walked
around her desk, and held open the door for him.
“Well, I’m glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any rate,” she said,
pointing him out of her office.


CHAPTER  THIRTEEN

DETENTION WITH DOLORES

inner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant experience for
Harry. The news about his shouting match with Umbridge seemed to
have traveled exceptionally fast even by Hogwarts standards. He heard
whispers all around him as he sat eating between Ron and Hermione. The
funny thing was that none of the whisperers seemed to mind him
overhearing what they were saying about him — on the contrary, it was as
though they were hoping he would get angry and start shouting again, so
that they could hear his story firsthand.
“He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered . . .”
“He reckons he dueled with You-Know-Who . . .”
“Come off it . . .”

“Who does he think he’s kidding?”
“Pur-lease . . .”
“What I don’t get,” said Harry in a shaking voice, laying down his knife
and fork (his hands were trembling too much to hold them steady), “is why
they all believed the story two months ago when Dumbledore told
them . . .”
“The thing is, Harry, I’m not sure they did,” said Hermione grimly. “Oh,
let’s get out of here.”
She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron looked sadly at his halffinished apple pie but followed suit. People stared at them all the way out of
the Hall.
“What d’you mean, you’re not sure they believed Dumbledore?” Harry
asked Hermione when they reached the first-floor landing.
“Look, you don’t understand what it was like after it happened,” said
Hermione quietly. “You arrived back in the middle of the lawn clutching
Cedric’s dead body. . . . None of us saw what happened in the maze. . . . We
just had Dumbledore’s word for it that You-Know-Who had come back and
killed Cedric and fought you.”

“Which is the truth!” said Harry loudly.
“I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my head off?” said
Hermione wearily. “It’s just that before the truth could sink in, everyone
went home for the summer, where they spent two months reading about
how you’re a nutcase and Dumbledore’s going senile!”
Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode along the empty
corridors back to Gryffindor Tower. Harry felt as though his first day had
lasted a week, but he still had a mountain of homework to do before bed. A
dull pounding pain was developing over his right eye. He glanced out of a
rain-washed window at the dark grounds as they turned into the Fat Lady’s
corridor. There was still no light in Hagrid’s cabin.
“Mimbulus mimbletonia,” said Hermione, before the Fat Lady could ask.
The portrait swung open to reveal the hole behind and the three of them
scrambled back through it.

The common room was almost empty; nearly everyone was still down at
dinner. Crookshanks uncoiled himself from an armchair and trotted to meet
them, purring loudly, and when Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their three
favorite chairs at the fireside he leapt lightly into Hermione’s lap and curled
up there like a furry ginger cushion. Harry gazed into the flames, feeling
drained and exhausted.
“How can Dumbledore have let this happen?” Hermione cried suddenly,
making Harry and Ron jump; Crookshanks leapt off her, looking affronted.
She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so that bits of stuffing leaked out
of the holes. “How can he let that terrible woman teach us? And in our
O.W.L. year too!”
“Well, we’ve never had great Defense Against the Dark Arts teachers,
have we?” said Harry. “You know what it’s like, Hagrid told us, nobody
wants the job, they say it’s jinxed.”
“Yes, but to employ someone who’s actually refusing to let us do magic!
What’s Dumbledore playing at?”
“And she’s trying to get people to spy for her,” said Ron darkly.
“Remember when she said she wanted us to come and tell her if we hear
anyone saying You-Know-Who’s back?”
“Of course she’s here to spy on us all, that’s obvious, why else would
Fudge have wanted her to come?” snapped Hermione.
“Don’t start arguing again,” said Harry wearily, as Ron opened his mouth
to retaliate. “Can’t we just . . . Let’s just do that homework, get it out of the
way . . .”

They collected their schoolbags from a corner and returned to the chairs
by the fire. People were coming back from dinner now. Harry kept his face
averted from the portrait hole, but could still sense the stares he was
attracting.
“Shall we do Snape’s stuff first?” said Ron, dipping his quill into his ink.
“‘The properties  .  .  . of moonstone  .  .  . and its uses  .  .  . in potionmaking  .  .  .’” he muttered, writing the words across the top of his
parchment as he spoke them. “There.” He underlined the title, then looked
up expectantly at Hermione.

“So what are the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion-making?”
But Hermione was not listening; she was squinting over into the far
corner of the room, where Fred, George, and Lee Jordan were now sitting at
the center of a knot of innocent-looking first years, all of whom were
chewing something that seemed to have come out of a large paper bag that
Fred was holding.
“No, I’m sorry, they’ve gone too far,” she said, standing up and looking
positively furious. “Come on, Ron.”
“I — what?” said Ron, plainly playing for time. “No — come on,
Hermione — we can’t tell them off for giving out sweets . . .”
“You know perfectly well that those are bits of Nosebleed Nougat or —
or Puking Pastilles or —”
“Fainting Fancies?” Harry suggested quietly.

One by one, as though hit over the heads with invisible mallets, the first
years were slumping unconscious in their seats; some slid right onto the
floor, others merely hung over the arms of their chairs, their tongues lolling
out. Most of the people watching were laughing; Hermione, however,
squared her shoulders and marched directly over to where Fred and George
now stood with clipboards, closely observing the unconscious first years.
Ron rose halfway out of his chair, hovered uncertainly for a moment or two,
then muttered to Harry, “She’s got it under control,” before sinking as low
in his chair as his lanky frame permitted.
“That’s enough!” Hermione said forcefully to Fred and George, both of
whom looked up in mild surprise.
“Yeah, you’re right,” said George, nodding, “this dosage looks strong
enough, doesn’t it?”
“I told you this morning, you can’t test your rubbish on students!”
“We’re paying them!” said Fred indignantly.
“I don’t care, it could be dangerous!”

“Rubbish,” said Fred.
“Calm down, Hermione, they’re fine!” said Lee reassuringly as he
walked from first year to first year, inserting purple sweets into their open
mouths.
“Yeah, look, they’re coming round now,” said George.
A few of the first years were indeed stirring. Several looked so shocked
to find themselves lying on the floor, or dangling off their chairs, that Harry
was sure Fred and George had not warned them what the sweets were going
to do.
“Feel all right?” said George kindly to a small dark-haired girl lying at
his feet.
“I-I think so,” she said shakily.
“Excellent,” said Fred happily, but the next second Hermione had
snatched both his clipboard and the paper bag of Fainting Fancies from his
hands.

“It is NOT excellent!”
“’Course it is, they’re alive, aren’t they?” said Fred angrily.
“You can’t do this, what if you made one of them really ill?”
“We’re not going to make them ill, we’ve already tested them all on
ourselves, this is just to see if everyone reacts the same —”
“If you don’t stop doing it, I’m going to —”
“Put us in detention?” said Fred in an I’d-like-to-see-you-try-it voice.
“Make us write lines?” said George, smirking.
Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione drew herself up to
her full height; her eyes were narrowed and her bushy hair seemed to
crackle with electricity.
“No,” she said, her voice quivering with anger, “but I will write to your
mother.”
“You wouldn’t,” said George, horrified, taking a step back from her.
“Oh, yes, I would,” said Hermione grimly. “I can’t stop you eating the
stupid things yourselves, but you’re not giving them to first years.”
Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear that as far as they
were concerned, Hermione’s threat was way below the belt. With a last
threatening look at them, she thrust Fred’s clipboard and the bag of Fancies
back into his arms and stalked back to her chair by the fire.
Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was roughly level with his
knees.

“Thank you for your support, Ron,” Hermione said acidly.
“You handled it fine by yourself,” Ron mumbled.
Hermione stared down at her blank piece of parchment for a few seconds,
then said edgily, “Oh, it’s no good, I can’t concentrate now. I’m going to
bed.”
She wrenched her bag open; Harry thought she was about to put her
books away, but instead she pulled out two misshapen woolly objects,
placed them carefully on a table by the fireplace, covered them with a few
screwed-up bits of parchment and a broken quill, and stood back to admire
the effect.

“What in the name of Merlin are you doing?” said Ron, watching her as
though fearful for her sanity.
“They’re hats for house-elves,” she said briskly, now stuffing her books
back into her bag. “I did them over the summer. I’m a really slow knitter
without magic, but now I’m back at school I should be able to make lots
more.”
“You’re leaving out hats for the house-elves?” said Ron slowly. “And
you’re covering them up with rubbish first?”
“Yes,” said Hermione defiantly, swinging her bag onto her back.
“That’s not on,” said Ron angrily. “You’re trying to trick them into
picking up the hats. You’re setting them free when they might not want to
be free.”

“Of course they want to be free!” said Hermione at once, though her face
was turning pink. “Don’t you dare touch those hats, Ron!”
She left. Ron waited until she had disappeared through the door to the
girls’ dormitories, then cleared the rubbish off the woolly hats.
“They should at least see what they’re picking up,” he said firmly.
“Anyway . . .” He rolled up the parchment on which he had written the title
of Snape’s essay. “There’s no point trying to finish this now, I can’t do it
without Hermione, I haven’t got a clue what you’re supposed to do with
moonstones, have you?”
Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the ache in his right
temple was getting worse. He thought of the long essay on giant wars and
the pain stabbed at him sharply. Knowing perfectly well that he would
regret not finishing his homework tonight when the morning came, he piled
his books back into his bag.

“I’m going to bed too.”
He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to the dormitories, but
did not look at him. Harry had a fleeting impression that Seamus had
opened his mouth to speak, but sped up, and reached the soothing peace of
the stone spiral staircase without having to endure any more provocation.
The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as the previous one.
Hagrid was still absent from the staff table at breakfast.
“But on the plus side, no Snape today,” said Ron bracingly.
Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some coffee. She looked
mildly pleased about something, and when Ron asked her what she had to
be so happy about, she simply said, “The hats have gone. Seems the houseelves do want freedom after all.”
“I wouldn’t bet on it,” Ron told her cuttingly. “They might not count as
clothes. They didn’t look anything like hats to me, more like woolly
bladders.”

Hermione did not speak to him all morning.
Double Charms was succeeded by double Transfiguration. Professor
Flitwick and Professor McGonagall both spent the first fifteen minutes of
their lessons lecturing the class on the importance of O.W.L.s.
“What you must remember,” said little Professor Flitwick squeakily,
perched as ever on a pile of books so that he could see over the top of his
desk, “is that these examinations may influence your futures for many years
to come! If you have not already given serious thought to your careers, now
is the time to do so. And in the meantime, I’m afraid, we shall be working
harder than ever to ensure that you all do yourselves justice!”
They then spent more than an hour reviewing Summoning Charms,
which according to Professor Flitwick were bound to come up in their
O.W.L., and he rounded off the lesson by setting them their largest amount
of Charms homework ever.

It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration.
“You cannot pass an O.W.L.,” said Professor McGonagall grimly,
“without serious application, practice, and study. I see no reason why
everybody in this class should not achieve an O.W.L. in Transfiguration as
long as they put in the work.” Neville made a sad little disbelieving noise.
“Yes, you too, Longbottom,” said Professor McGonagall. “There’s nothing
wrong with your work except lack of confidence. So  .  .  . today we are
starting Vanishing Spells. These are easier than Conjuring Spells, which
you would not usually attempt until N.E.W.T. level, but they are still among
the most difficult magic you will be tested on in your O.W.L.”
She was quite right; Harry found the Vanishing Spells horribly difficult.
By the end of a double period, neither he nor Ron had managed to vanish
the snails on which they were practicing, though Ron said hopefully that he
thought his looked a bit paler. Hermione, on the other hand, successfully
vanished her snail on the third attempt, earning her a ten-point bonus for
Gryffindor from Professor McGonagall. She was the only person not given
homework; everybody else was told to practice the spell overnight, ready
for a fresh attempt on their snails the following afternoon.

Now panicking slightly about the amount of homework they had to do,
Harry and Ron spent their lunch hour in the library looking up the uses of
moonstones in potion-making. Still angry about Ron’s slur on her woolly
hats, Hermione did not join them. By the time they reached Care of Magical
Creatures in the afternoon, Harry’s head was aching again.

The day had become cool and breezy, and, as they walked down the
sloping lawn toward Hagrid’s cabin on the edge of the Forbidden Forest,
they felt the occasional drop of rain on their faces. Professor Grubbly-Plank
stood waiting for the class some ten yards from Hagrid’s front door, a long
trestle table in front of her laden with many twigs. As Harry and Ron
reached her, a loud shout of laughter sounded behind them; turning, they
saw Draco Malfoy striding toward them, surrounded by his usual gang of
Slytherin cronies. He had clearly just said something highly amusing,
because Crabbe, Goyle, Pansy Parkinson, and the rest continued to snigger
heartily as they gathered around the trestle table. Judging by the fact that all
of them kept looking over at Harry, he was able to guess the subject of the
joke without too much difficulty.

“Everyone here?” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, once all the
Slytherins and Gryffindors had arrived. “Let’s crack on then — who can tell
me what these things are called?”
She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. Hermione’s hand shot into
the air. Behind her back, Malfoy did a buck-toothed imitation of her
jumping up and down in eagerness to answer a question. Pansy Parkinson
gave a shriek of laughter that turned almost at once into a scream, as the
twigs on the table leapt into the air and revealed themselves to be what
looked like tiny pixieish creatures made of wood, each with knobbly brown
arms and legs, two twiglike fingers at the end of each hand, and a funny,
flat, barklike face in which a pair of beetle-brown eyes glittered.
“Oooooh!” said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly irritating Harry:
Anyone would have thought that Hagrid never showed them impressive
creatures; admittedly the flobberworms had been a bit dull, but the
salamanders and hippogriffs had been interesting enough, and the BlastEnded Skrewts perhaps too much so.
“Kindly keep your voices down, girls!” said Professor Grubbly-Plank
sharply, scattering a handful of what looked like brown rice among the
stick-creatures, who immediately fell upon the food. “So — anyone know
the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?”

“Bowtruckles,” said Hermione. “They’re tree-guardians, usually live in
wand-trees.”
“Five points for Gryffindor,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank. “Yes, these
are bowtruckles and, as Miss Granger rightly says, they generally live in
trees whose wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what they eat?”
“Wood lice,” said Hermione promptly, which explained why what Harry
had taken for grains of brown rice were moving. “But fairy eggs if they can
get them.”

“Good girl, take another five points. So whenever you need leaves or
wood from a tree in which a bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a gift of
wood lice ready to distract or placate it. They may not look dangerous, but
if angered they will gouge out human eyes with their fingers, which, as you
can see, are very sharp and not at all desirable near the eyeballs. So if you’d
like to gather closer, take a few wood lice and a bowtruckle — I have
enough here for one between three — you can study them more closely. I
want a sketch from each of you with all body parts labeled by the end of the
lesson.”

The class surged forward around the trestle table. Harry deliberately
circled around the back so that he ended up right next to Professor Grubbly-
Plank.
“Where’s Hagrid?” he asked her, while everyone else was choosing
bowtruckles.
“Never you mind,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank repressively, which had
been her attitude last time Hagrid had failed to turn up for a class too.
Smirking all over his pointed face, Draco Malfoy leaned across Harry and
seized the largest bowtruckle.
“Maybe,” said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only Harry could hear
him, “the stupid great oaf’s got himself badly injured.”
“Maybe you will if you don’t shut up,” said Harry out of the side of his
mouth.

“Maybe he’s been messing with stuff that’s too big for him, if you get my
drift.”
Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at Harry, who suddenly
felt sick. Did Malfoy know something? His father was a Death Eater, after
all; what if he had information about Hagrid’s fate that had not yet reached
the Order’s ears? He hurried back around the table to Ron and Hermione,
who were squatting on the grass some distance away and attempting to
persuade a bowtruckle to remain still long enough to draw it. Harry pulled
out parchment and quill, crouched down beside the others, and related in a
whisper what Malfoy had just said.

“Dumbledore would know if something had happened to Hagrid,” said
Hermione at once. “It’s just playing into Malfoy’s hands to look worried, it
tells him we don’t know exactly what’s going on. We’ve got to ignore him,
Harry. Here, hold the bowtruckle for a moment, just so I can draw its
face . . .”

“Yes,” came Malfoy’s clear drawl from the group nearest them, “Father
was talking to the Minister just a couple of days ago, you know, and it
sounds as though the Ministry’s really determined to crack down on
substandard teaching in this place. So even if that overgrown moron does
show up again, he’ll probably be sent packing straight away.”
“OUCH!”

Harry had gripped the bowtruckle so hard that it had almost snapped; it
had just taken a great retaliatory swipe at his hand with its sharp fingers,
leaving two long deep cuts there. Harry dropped it; Crabbe and Goyle, who
had already been guffawing at the idea of Hagrid being sacked, laughed still
harder as the bowtruckle set off at full tilt toward the forest, a little, moving
stickman soon swallowed up by the tree roots. When the bell echoed
distantly over the grounds Harry rolled up his bloodstained bowtruckle
picture and marched off to Herbology with his hand wrapped in a
handkerchief of Hermione’s and Malfoy’s derisive laughter still ringing in
his ears.

“If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time . . .” snarled Harry.
“Harry, don’t go picking a row with Malfoy, don’t forget, he’s a prefect
now, he could make life difficult for you . . .”
“Wow, I wonder what it’d be like to have a difficult life?” said Harry
sarcastically. Ron laughed, but Hermione frowned. Together they traipsed
across the vegetable patch. The sky still appeared unable to make up its
mind whether it wanted to rain or not.
“I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, that’s all,” said Harry in
a low voice, as they reached the greenhouses. “And don’t say that GrubblyPlank woman’s a better teacher!” he added threateningly.
“I wasn’t going to,” said Hermione calmly.
“Because she’ll never be as good as Hagrid,” said Harry firmly, fully
aware that he had just experienced an exemplary Care of Magical Creatures
lesson and was thoroughly annoyed about it.
The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some fourth years spilled
out of it, including Ginny.

“Hi,” she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds later, Luna
Lovegood emerged, trailing behind the rest of the class, a smudge of earth
on her nose and her hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she saw
Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to bulge excitedly and she made a
beeline straight for him. Many of his classmates turned curiously to watch.
Luna took a great breath and then said, without so much as a preliminary
hello: “I believe He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is back, and I believe you
fought him and escaped from him.”

“Er — right,” said Harry awkwardly. Luna was wearing what looked like
a pair of orange radishes for earrings, a fact that Parvati and Lavender
seemed to have noticed, as they were both giggling and pointing at her
earlobes.

“You can laugh!” Luna said, her voice rising, apparently under the
impression that Parvati and Lavender were laughing at what she had said
rather than what she was wearing. “But people used to believe there were
no such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple-Horned
Snorkack!”

“Well, they were right, weren’t they?” said Hermione impatiently. “There
weren’t any such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the CrumpleHorned Snorkack.”
Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, radishes swinging
madly. Parvati and Lavender were not the only ones hooting with laughter
now.

“D’you mind not offending the only people who believe me?” Harry
asked Hermione as they made their way into class.
“Oh, for heaven’s sake, Harry, you can do better than her,” said
Hermione. “Ginny’s told me all about her, apparently she’ll only believe in
things as long as there’s no proof at all. Well, I wouldn’t expect anything
else from someone whose father runs The Quibbler.”

Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had seen on the night he
had arrived and how Luna had said she could see them too. His spirits sank
slightly. Had she been lying? But before he could devote much more
thought to the matter, Ernie Macmillan had stepped up to him.
“I want you to know, Potter,” he said in a loud, carrying voice, “that it’s
not only weirdos who support you. I personally believe you one hundred
percent. My family have always stood firm behind Dumbledore, and so do
I.”

“Er — thanks very much, Ernie,” said Harry, taken aback but pleased.
Ernie might be pompous on occasions like these, but Harry was in a mood
to deeply appreciate a vote of confidence from somebody who was not
wearing radishes in their ears. Ernie’s words had certainly wiped the smile
from Lavender Brown’s face and, as he turned to talk to Ron and Hermione,
Harry caught Seamus’s expression, which looked both confused and
defiant.

To nobody’s surprise, Professor Sprout started their lesson by lecturing
them about the importance of O.W.L.s. Harry wished all the teachers would
stop doing this; he was starting to get an anxious, twisted feeling in his
stomach every time he remembered how much homework he had to do, a
feeling that worsened dramatically when Professor Sprout gave them yet
another essay at the end of class. Tired and smelling strongly of dragon
dung, Professor Sprout’s preferred brand of fertilizer, the Gryffindors
trooped back up to the castle, none of them talking very much; it had been
another long day.

As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention with Umbridge at
five o’clock, he headed straight for dinner without dropping off his bag in
Gryffindor Tower so that he could bolt something down before facing
whatever she had in store for him. He had barely reached the entrance of the
Great Hall, however, when a loud and angry voice said, “Oy, Potter!”
“What now?” he muttered wearily, turning to face Angelina Johnson,
who looked as though she was in a towering temper.

“I’ll tell you what now,” she said, marching straight up to him and poking
him hard in the chest with her finger. “How come you’ve landed yourself in
detention for five o’clock on Friday?”
“What?” said Harry. “Why . . . oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!”
“Now he remembers!” snarled Angelina. “Didn’t I tell you I wanted to do
a tryout with the whole team, and find someone who fitted in with
everyone? Didn’t I tell you I’d booked the Quidditch pitch specially? And
now you’ve decided you’re not going to be there!”
“I didn’t decide not to be there!” said Harry, stung by the injustice of
these words. “I got detention from that Umbridge woman, just because I
told her the truth about You-Know-Who —”

“Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on
Friday,” said Angelina fiercely, “and I don’t care how you do it, tell her
You-Know-Who’s a figment of your imagination if you like, just make sure
you’re there!”
She stormed away.
“You know what?” Harry said to Ron and Hermione as they entered the
Great Hall. “I think we’d better check with Puddlemere United whether
Oliver Wood’s been killed during a training session, because she seems to
be channeling his spirit.”

“What d’you reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting you off on
Friday?” said Ron skeptically, as they sat down at the Gryffindor table.
“Less than zero,” said Harry glumly, tipping lamb chops onto his plate
and starting to eat. “Better try, though, hadn’t I? I’ll offer to do two more
detentions or something, I dunno . . .” He swallowed a mouthful of potato
and added, “I hope she doesn’t keep me too long this evening. You realize
we’ve got to write three essays, practice Vanishing Spells for McGonagall,
work out a countercharm for Flitwick, finish the bowtruckle drawing, and
start that stupid dream diary for Trelawney?”
Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the ceiling.
“And it looks like it’s going to rain.”
“What’s that got to do with our homework?” said Hermione, her
eyebrows raised.

“Nothing,” said Ron at once, his ears reddening.
At five to five Harry bade the other two good-bye and set off for
Umbridge’s office on the third floor. When he knocked on the door she said,
“Come in,” in a sugary voice. He entered cautiously, looking around.
He had known this office under three of its previous occupants. In the
days when Gilderoy Lockhart had lived here it had been plastered in
beaming portraits of its owner. When Lupin had occupied it, it was likely
you would meet some fascinating Dark creature in a cage or tank if you
came to call. In the impostor Moody’s days it had been packed with various
instruments and artifacts for the detection of wrongdoing and concealment.
Now, however, it looked totally unrecognizable. The surfaces had all
been draped in lacy covers and cloths. There were several vases full of
dried flowers, each residing on its own doily, and on one of the walls was a
collection of ornamental plates, each decorated with a large Technicolored
kitten wearing a different bow around its neck. These were so foul that
Harry stared at them, transfixed, until Professor Umbridge spoke again.
“Good evening, Mr. Potter.”

Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed her at first because
she was wearing a luridly flowered set of robes that blended only too well
with the tablecloth on the desk behind her.
“Evening,” Harry said stiffly.
“Well, sit down,” she said, pointing toward a small table draped in lace
beside which she had drawn up a straight-backed chair. A piece of blank
parchment lay on the table, apparently waiting for him.
“Er,” said Harry, without moving. “Professor Umbridge? Er — before we
start, I-I wanted to ask you a . . . a favor.”
Her bulging eyes narrowed.

“Oh yes?”
“Well I’m . . . I’m on the Gryffindor Quidditch team. And I was supposed
to be at the tryouts for the new Keeper at five o’clock on Friday and I was
— was wondering whether I could skip detention that night and do it — do
it another night . . . instead . . .”
He knew long before he reached the end of his sentence that it was no
good.

“Oh no,” said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she looked as though she
had just swallowed a particularly juicy fly. “Oh no, no, no. This is your
punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attention-seeking stories, Mr. Potter,
and punishments certainly cannot be adjusted to suit the guilty one’s
convenience. No, you will come here at five o’clock tomorrow, and the next
day, and on Friday too, and you will do your detentions as planned. I think
it rather a good thing that you are missing something you really want to do.
It ought to reinforce the lesson I am trying to teach you.”

Harry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a thumping noise in his
ears. So he told evil, nasty, attention-seeking stories, did he?
She was watching him with her head slightly to one side, still smiling
widely, as though she knew exactly what he was thinking and was waiting
to see whether he would start shouting again. With a massive effort Harry
looked away from her, dropped his schoolbag beside the straight-backed
chair, and sat down.

“There,” said Umbridge sweetly, “we’re getting better at controlling our
temper already, aren’t we? Now, you are going to be doing some lines for
me, Mr. Potter. No, not with your quill,” she added, as Harry bent down to
open his bag. “You’re going to be using a rather special one of mine. Here
you are.”

She handed him a long, thin black quill with an unusually sharp point.
“I want you to write ‘I must not tell lies,’” she told him softly.
“How many times?” Harry asked, with a creditable imitation of
politeness.
“Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in,” said Umbridge
sweetly. “Off you go.”
She moved over to her desk, sat down, and bent over a stack of
parchment that looked like essays for marking. Harry raised the sharp black
quill and then realized what was missing.
“You haven’t given me any ink,” he said.
“Oh, you won’t need ink,” said Professor Umbridge with the merest
suggestion of a laugh in her voice.
Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and wrote: I must not tell
lies.

He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on the parchment in
what appeared to be shining red ink. At the same time, the words had
appeared on the back of Harry’s right hand, cut into his skin as though
traced there by a scalpel — yet even as he stared at the shining cut, the skin
healed over again, leaving the place where it had been slightly redder than
before but quite smooth.
Harry looked around at Umbridge. She was watching him, her wide,
toadlike mouth stretched in a smile.

“Yes?”
“Nothing,” said Harry quietly.
He looked back at the parchment, placed the quill upon it once more,
wrote I must not tell lies, and felt the searing pain on the back of his hand
for a second time; once again the words had been cut into his skin, once
again they healed over seconds later.
And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the words on the parchment
in what he soon came to realize was not ink, but his own blood. And again
and again the words were cut into the back of his hand, healed, and then
reappeared the next time he set quill to parchment.
Darkness fell outside Umbridge’s window. Harry did not ask when he
would be allowed to stop. He did not even check his watch. He knew she
was watching him for signs of weakness and he was not going to show any,
not even if he had to sit here all night, cutting open his own hand with this
quill. . . .

“Come here,” she said, after what seemed hours.
He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When he looked down at it
he saw that the cut had healed, but that the skin there was red raw.
“Hand,” she said.
He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry repressed a shudder as she
touched him with her thick, stubby fingers on which she wore a number of
ugly old rings.
“Tut, tut, I don’t seem to have made much of an impression yet,” she
said, smiling. “Well, we’ll just have to try again tomorrow evening, won’t
we? You may go.”

Harry left her office without a word. The school was quite deserted; it
was surely past midnight. He walked slowly up the corridor then, when he
had turned the corner and was sure that she would not hear him, broke into
a run.

He had not had time to practice Vanishing Spells, had not written a single
dream in his dream diary, and had not finished the drawing of the
bowtruckle, nor had he written his essays. He skipped breakfast next
morning to scribble down a couple of made-up dreams for Divination, their
first lesson, and was surprised to find a disheveled Ron keeping him
company.

“How come you didn’t do it last night?” Harry asked, as Ron stared
wildly around the common room for inspiration. Ron, who had been fast
asleep when Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered something about
“doing other stuff,” bent low over his parchment, and scrawled a few
words.

“That’ll have to do,” he said, slamming the diary shut, “I’ve said I
dreamed I was buying a new pair of shoes, she can’t make anything weird
out of that, can she?”
They hurried off to North Tower together.
“How was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What did she make you
do?”

Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, “Lines.”
“That’s not too bad, then, eh?” said Ron.
“Nope,” said Harry.
“Hey — I forgot — did she let you off for Friday?”
“No,” said Harry.
Ron groaned sympathetically.

It was another bad day for Harry; he was one of the worst in
Transfiguration, not having practiced Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give
up his lunch hour to complete the picture of the bowtruckle, and
meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, Grubbly-Plank, and Sinistra gave them
yet more homework, which he had no prospect of finishing that evening
because of his second detention with Umbridge. To cap it all, Angelina
Johnson tracked him down at dinner again and, on learning that he would
not be able to attend Friday’s Keeper tryouts, told him she was not at all
impressed by his attitude and that she expected players who wished to
remain on the team to put training before their other commitments.
“I’m in detention!” Harry yelled after her as she stalked away. “D’you
think I’d rather be stuck in a room with that old toad or playing Quidditch?”
“At least it’s only lines,” said Hermione consolingly, as Harry sank back
onto his bench and looked down at his steak-and-kidney pie, which he no
longer fancied very much. “It’s not as if it’s a dreadful punishment,
really . . .”

Harry opened his mouth, closed it again, and nodded. He was not really
sure why he was not telling Ron and Hermione exactly what was happening
in Umbridge’s room: He only knew that he did not want to see their looks
of horror; that would make the whole thing seem worse and therefore more
difficult to face. He also felt dimly that this was between himself and
Umbridge, a private battle of wills, and he was not going to give her the
satisfaction of hearing that he had complained about it.

“I can’t believe how much homework we’ve got,” said Ron miserably.
“Well, why didn’t you do any last night?” Hermione asked him. “Where
were you anyway?”
“I was . . . I fancied a walk,” said Ron shiftily.
Harry had the distinct impression that he was not alone in concealing
things at the moment.

The second detention was just as bad as the previous one. The skin on the
back of Harry’s hand became irritated more quickly now, red and inflamed;
Harry thought it unlikely to keep healing as effectively for long. Soon the
cut would remain etched in his hand and Umbridge would, perhaps, be
satisfied. He let no moan of pain escape him, however, and from the
moment of entering the room to the moment of his dismissal, again past
midnight, he said nothing but “Good evening” and “Good night.”

His homework situation, however, was now desperate, and when he
returned to the Gryffindor common room he did not, though exhausted, go
to bed, but opened his books and began Snape’s moonstone essay. It was
half-past two by the time he had finished it. He knew he had done a poor
job, but there was no help for it; unless he had something to give in he
would be in detention with Snape next. He then dashed off answers to the
questions Professor McGonagall had set them, cobbled together something
on the proper handling of bowtruckles for Professor Grubbly-Plank, and
staggered up to bed, where he fell fully clothed on top of the bed covers and
fell asleep immediately.

Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed very sleepy too,
though Harry could not see why he should be. Harry’s third detention
passed in the same way as the previous two, except that after two hours the
words “I must not tell lies” did not fade from the back of Harry’s hand, but
remained scratched there, oozing droplets of blood. The pause in the
pointed quill’s scratching made Professor Umbridge look up.
“Ah,” she said softly, moving around her desk to examine his hand
herself. “Good. That ought to serve as a reminder to you, oughtn’t it? You
may leave for tonight.”

“Do I still have to come back tomorrow?” said Harry, picking up his
schoolbag with his left hand rather than his smarting right.
“Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge, smiling widely as before. “Yes, I
think we can etch the message a little deeper with another evening’s work.”
He had never before considered the possibility that there might be
another teacher in the world he hated more than Snape, but as he walked
back toward Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he had found a contender.
She’s evil, he thought, as he climbed a staircase to the seventh floor, she’s an
evil, twisted, mad, old —

“Ron?”
He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right, and almost walked into
Ron, who was lurking behind a statue of Lachlan the Lanky, clutching his
broomstick. He gave a great leap of surprise when he saw Harry and
attempted to hide his new Cleansweep Eleven behind his back.
“What are you doing?”
“Er — nothing. What are you doing?”

Harry frowned at him.
“Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here for?”
“I’m — I’m hiding from Fred and George, if you must know,” said Ron.
“They just went past with a bunch of first years, I bet they’re testing stuff
on them again, I mean, they can’t do it in the common room now, can they,
not with Hermione there.”
He was talking in a very fast, feverish way.

“But what have you got your broom for, you haven’t been flying, have
you?” Harry asked.
“I — well — well, okay, I’ll tell you, but don’t laugh, all right?” Ron said
defensively, turning redder with every second. “I-I thought I’d try out for
Gryffindor Keeper now I’ve got a decent broom. There. Go on. Laugh.”
“I’m not laughing,” said Harry. Ron blinked. “It’s a brilliant idea! It’d be
really cool if you got on the team! I’ve never seen you play Keeper, are you
good?”

“I’m not bad,” said Ron, who looked immensely relieved at Harry’s
reaction. “Charlie, Fred, and George always made me Keep for them when
they were training during the holidays.”
“So you’ve been practicing tonight?”
“Every evening since Tuesday  .  .  . just on my own, though, I’ve been
trying to bewitch Quaffles to fly at me, but it hasn’t been easy and I don’t
know how much use it’ll be.” Ron looked nervous and anxious. “Fred and
George are going to laugh themselves stupid when I turn up for the tryouts.
They haven’t stopped taking the mickey out of me since I got made a
prefect.”

“I wish I was going to be there,” said Harry bitterly, as they set off
together toward the common room.
“Yeah, so do — Harry, what’s that on the back of your hand?”
Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free right hand, tried to
hide it, but had as much success as Ron with his Cleansweep.
“It’s just a cut — it’s nothing — it’s —”
But Ron had grabbed Harry’s forearm and pulled the back of Harry’s
hand up level with his eyes. There was a pause, during which he stared at
the words carved into the skin, then he released Harry, looking sick.
“I thought you said she was giving you lines?”

Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest with him, so he told
Ron the truth about the hours he had been spending in Umbridge’s office.
“The old hag!” Ron said in a revolted whisper as they came to a halt in
front of the Fat Lady, who was dozing peacefully with her head against her
frame. “She’s sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!”
“No,” said Harry at once. “I’m not giving her the satisfaction of knowing
she’s got to me.”

“Got to you? You can’t let her get away with this!”
“I don’t know how much power McGonagall’s got over her,” said Harry.
“Dumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!”
“No,” said Harry flatly.
“Why not?”
“He’s got enough on his mind,” said Harry, but that was not the true
reason. He was not going to go to Dumbledore for help when Dumbledore
had not spoken to him once since last June.
“Well, I reckon you should —” Ron began, but he was interrupted by the
Fat Lady, who had been watching them sleepily and now burst out, “Are
you going to give me the password or will I have to stay awake all night
waiting for you to finish your conversation?”

Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the week. Though Harry
glanced toward the staff table automatically when he entered the Great Hall,
it was without real hope of seeing Hagrid and he turned his mind
immediately to his more pressing problems, such as the mountainous pile of
homework he had to do and the prospect of yet another detention with
Umbridge.

Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the thought that it was
almost the weekend; the other was that, dreadful though his final detention
with Umbridge was sure to be, he had a distant view of the Quidditch pitch
from her window and might, with luck, be able to see something of Ron’s
tryout. These were rather feeble rays of light, it was true, but Harry was
grateful for anything that might lighten his present darkness; he had never
had a worse first week of term at Hogwarts.
At five o’clock that evening he knocked on Professor Umbridge’s office
door for what he sincerely hoped would be the final time, was told to enter
and did so. The blank parchment lay ready for him on the lace-covered
table, the pointed black quill beside it.
“You know what to do, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge, smiling sweetly over
at him.

Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the window. If he just
shifted his chair an inch or so to the right  .  .  . On the pretext of shifting
himself closer to the table he managed it. He now had a distant view of the
Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down the pitch, while half a
dozen black figures stood at the foot of the three high goalposts, apparently
awaiting their turn to Keep. It was impossible to tell which one was Ron at
this distance.
I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the back of his right hand
opened and began to bleed afresh.
I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and smarting.
I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist.
He chanced another glance out of the window. Whoever was defending
the goalposts now was doing a very poor job indeed. Katie Bell scored
twice in the few seconds Harry dared watch. Hoping very much that the
Keeper wasn’t Ron, he dropped his eyes back to the parchment dotted with
blood.

I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it, when he could hear
the scratching of Umbridge’s quill or the opening of a desk drawer. The
third person to try out was pretty good, the fourth was terrible, the fifth
dodged a Bludger exceptionally well but then fumbled an easy save. The
sky was darkening so that Harry doubted he would be able to watch the
sixth and seventh people at all.
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.

The parchment was now shining with drops of blood from the back of his
hand, which was searing with pain. When he next looked up, night had
fallen and the Quidditch pitch was no longer visible.
“Let’s see if you’ve gotten the message yet, shall we?” said Umbridge’s
soft voice half an hour later.
She moved toward him, stretching out her short be-ringed fingers for his
arm. And then, as she took hold of him to examine the words now cut into
his skin, pain seared, not across the back of his hand, but across the scar on
his forehead. At the same time, he had a most peculiar sensation somewhere
around his midriff.

He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, staring at her.
She looked back at him, a smile stretching her wide, slack mouth.
“Yes, it hurts, doesn’t it?” she said softly.
He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard and fast. Was she
talking about his hand or did she know what he had just felt in his forehead?
“Well, I think I’ve made my point, Mr. Potter. You may go.”
He caught up his schoolbag and left the room as quickly as he could.
Stay calm, he told himself as he sprinted up the stairs. Stay calm, it
doesn’t necessarily mean what you think it means. . . .
“Mimbulus mimbletonia!” he gasped at the Fat Lady, who swung
forward once more.

A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running toward him, beaming all
over his face and slopping butterbeer down his front from the goblet he was
clutching.
“Harry, I did it, I’m in, I’m Keeper!”
“What? Oh — brilliant!” said Harry, trying to smile naturally, while his
heart continued to race and his hand throbbed and bled.
“Have a butterbeer.” Ron pressed a bottle onto him. “I can’t believe it —
where’s Hermione gone?”
“She’s there,” said Fred, who was also swigging butterbeer, and pointed
to an armchair by the fire. Hermione was dozing in it, her drink tipping
precariously in her hand.
“Well, she said she was pleased when I told her,” said Ron, looking
slightly put out.
“Let her sleep,” said George hastily. It was a few moments before Harry
noticed that several of the first years gathered around them bore
unmistakable signs of recent nosebleeds.
“Come here, Ron, and see if Oliver’s old robes fit you,” called Katie
Bell. “We can take off his name and put yours on instead . . .”
As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to Harry.

“Sorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter,” she said abruptly. “It’s
stressful, this managing lark, you know, I’m starting to think I was a bit
hard on Wood sometimes.” She was watching Ron over the rim of her
goblet with a slight frown on her face.
“Look, I know he’s your best mate, but he’s not fabulous,” she said
bluntly. “I think with a bit of training he’ll be all right, though. He comes
from a family of good Quidditch players. I’m banking on him turning out to
have a bit more talent than he showed today, to be honest. Vicky Frobisher
and Geoffrey Hooper both flew better this evening, but Hooper’s a real
whiner, he’s always moaning about something or other, and Vicky’s
involved in all sorts of societies, she admitted herself that if training clashed
with her Charm Club she’d put Charms first. Anyway, we’re having a
practice session at two o’clock tomorrow, so just make sure you’re there
this time. And do me a favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?”

He nodded and Angelina strolled back to Alicia Spinnet. Harry moved
over to sit next to Hermione, who awoke with a jerk as he put down his bag.
“Oh, Harry, it’s you.  .  .  . Good about Ron, isn’t it?” she said blearily.
“I’m just so — so — so tired,” she yawned. “I was up until one o’clock
making more hats. They’re disappearing like mad!”
And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that there were woolly
hats concealed all around the room where unwary elves might accidentally
pick them up.
“Great,” said Harry distractedly; if he did not tell somebody soon, he
would burst. “Listen, Hermione, I was just up in Umbridge’s office and she
touched my arm . . .”

Hermione listened closely. When Harry had finished she said slowly,
“You’re worried that You-Know-Who’s controlling her like he controlled
Quirrell?”
“Well,” said Harry, dropping his voice, “it’s a possibility, isn’t it?”
“I suppose so,” said Hermione, though she sounded unconvinced. “But I
don’t think he can be possessing her the way he possessed Quirrell, I mean,
he’s properly alive again now, isn’t he, he’s got his own body, he wouldn’t
need to share someone else’s. He could have her under the Imperius Curse,
I suppose . . .”

Harry watched Fred, George, and Lee Jordan juggling empty butterbeer
bottles for a moment. Then Hermione said, “But last year your scar hurt
when nobody was touching you, and didn’t Dumbledore say it had to do
with what You-Know-Who was feeling at the time? I mean, maybe this
hasn’t got anything to do with Umbridge at all, maybe it’s just coincidence
it happened while you were with her?”
“She’s evil,” said Harry flatly. “Twisted.”
“She’s horrible, yes, but . . . Harry, I think you ought to tell Dumbledore
your scar hurt.”
It was the second time in two days he had been advised to go to
Dumbledore and his answer to Hermione was just the same as his answer to
Ron.

“I’m not bothering him with this. Like you just said, it’s not a big deal.
It’s been hurting on and off all summer — it was just a bit worse tonight,
that’s all —”
“Harry, I’m sure Dumbledore would want to be bothered by this —”
“Yeah,” said Harry, before he could stop himself, “that’s the only bit of
me Dumbledore cares about, isn’t it, my scar?”
“Don’t say that, it’s not true!”
“I think I’ll write and tell Sirius about it, see what he thinks —”
“Harry, you can’t put something like that in a letter!” said Hermione,
looking alarmed. “Don’t you remember, Moody told us to be careful what
we put in writing! We just can’t guarantee owls aren’t being intercepted
anymore!”

“All right, all right, I won’t tell him, then!” said Harry irritably. He got to
his feet. “I’m going to bed. Tell Ron for me, will you?”
“Oh no,” said Hermione, looking relieved, “if you’re going that means I
can go without being rude too, I’m absolutely exhausted and I want to make
some more hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if you like, it’s quite
fun, I’m getting better, I can do patterns and bobbles and all sorts of things
now.”

Harry looked into her face, which was shining with glee, and tried to look
as though he was vaguely tempted by this offer.
“Er . . . no, I don’t think I will, thanks,” he said. “Er — not tomorrow.
I’ve got loads of homework to do . . .”
And he traipsed off to the boys’ stairs, leaving her looking slightly
disappointed behind him.


CHAPTER  FOURTEEN

PERCY AND PADFOOT

arry was the first to awake in his dormitory next morning. He lay for
a moment watching dust swirl in the chink of sunlight falling
through the gap in his four-poster’s hangings and savored the thought that it
was Saturday. The first week of term seemed to have dragged on forever,
like one gigantic History of Magic lesson.

Judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted look of that beam of
sunlight, it was just after daybreak. He pulled open the curtains around his
bed, got up, and started to dress. The only sound apart from the distant
twittering of birds was the slow, deep breathing of his fellow Gryffindors.
He opened his schoolbag carefully, pulled out parchment and quill, and
headed out of the dormitory for the common room.

Making straight for his favorite squashy old armchair beside the now
extinct fire, Harry settled himself down comfortably and unrolled his
parchment while looking around the room. The detritus of crumpled-up bits
of parchment, old Gobstones, empty ingredient jars, and candy wrappers
that usually covered the common room at the end of each day was gone, as
were all Hermione’s elf hats. Wondering vaguely how many elves had now
been set free whether they wanted to be or not, Harry uncorked his ink
bottle, dipped his quill into it, and then held it suspended an inch above the
smooth yellowish surface of his parchment, thinking hard. . . . But after a
minute or so he found himself staring into the empty grate, at a complete
loss for what to say.

He could now appreciate how hard it had been for Ron and Hermione to
write him letters over the summer. How was he supposed to tell Sirius
everything that had happened over the past week and pose all the questions
he was burning to ask without giving potential letter-thieves a lot of
information he did not want them to have?

He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the fireplace, then, finally
coming to a decision, he dipped his quill into the ink bottle once more and
set it resolutely upon the parchment.

Dear Snuffles,
Hope you’re okay, the first week back here’s been terrible, I’m really
glad it’s the weekend.
We’ve got a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor
Umbridge. She’s nearly as nice as your mum. I’m writing because that
thing I wrote to you about last summer happened again last night when
I was doing a detention with Umbridge.
We’re all missing our biggest friend, we hope he’ll be back soon.
Please write back quickly.
Best,

Harry reread this letter several times, trying to see it from the point of
view of an outsider. He could not see how they would know what he was
talking about — or who he was talking to — just from reading this letter.
He did hope Sirius would pick up the hint about Hagrid and tell them when
he might be back: Harry did not want to ask directly in case it drew too
much attention to what Hagrid might be up to while he was not at
Hogwarts.

Considering it was a very short letter it had taken a long time to write;
sunlight had crept halfway across the room while he had been working on
it, and he could now hear distant sounds of movement from the dormitories
above. Sealing the parchment carefully he climbed through the portrait hole
and headed off for the Owlery.
“I would not go that way if I were you,” said Nearly Headless Nick,
drifting disconcertingly through a wall just ahead of him as he walked down
the passage. “Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next person to pass
the bust of Paracelsus halfway down the corridor.”
“Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the person’s head?” asked
Harry.

“Funnily enough, it does,” said Nearly Headless Nick in a bored voice.
“Subtlety has never been Peeves’s strong point. I’m off to try and find the
Bloody Baron.  .  .  . He might be able to put a stop to it.  .  . . See you,
Harry . . .”
“Yeah, ’bye,” said Harry and instead of turning right, he turned left,
taking a longer but safer route up to the Owlery. His spirits rose as he
walked past window after window showing brilliantly blue sky; he had
training later, he would be back on the Quidditch pitch at last —
Something brushed his ankles. He looked down and saw the caretaker’s
skeletal gray cat, Mrs. Norris, slinking past him. She turned lamplike
yellow eyes upon him for a moment before disappearing behind a statue of
Wilfred the Wistful.

“I’m not doing anything wrong,” Harry called after her. She had the
unmistakable air of a cat that was off to report to her boss, yet Harry could
not see why; he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the Owlery on a
Saturday morning.
The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry entered the Owlery the
glassless windows dazzled his eyes; thick silvery beams of sunlight
crisscrossed the circular room in which hundreds of owls nestled on rafters,
a little restless in the early morning light, some clearly just returned from
hunting. The straw-covered floor crunched a little as he stepped across tiny
animal bones, craning his neck for a sight of Hedwig.
“There you are,” he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top of the
vaulted ceiling. “Get down here, I’ve got a letter for you.”
With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared down
onto his shoulder.

“Right, I know this says ‘Snuffles’ on the outside,” he told her, giving her
the letter to clasp in her beak and, without knowing exactly why,
whispering, “but it’s for Sirius, okay?”
She blinked her amber eyes once and he took that to mean that she
understood.

“Safe flight, then,” said Harry and he carried her to one of the windows;
with a moment’s pressure on his arm Hedwig took off into the blindingly
bright sky. He watched her until she became a tiny black speck and
vanished, then switched his gaze to Hagrid’s hut, clearly visible from this
window, and just as clearly uninhabited, the chimney smokeless, the
curtains drawn.
The treetops of the Forbidden Forest swayed in a light breeze. Harry
watched them, savoring the fresh air on his face, thinking about Quidditch
later . . . and then he saw it. A great, reptilian winged horse, just like the
ones pulling the Hogwarts carriages, with leathery black wings spread wide
like a pterodactyl’s, rose up out of the trees like a grotesque, giant bird. It
soared in a great circle and then plunged once more into the trees. The
whole thing had happened so quickly Harry could hardly believe what he
had seen, except that his heart was hammering madly.

The Owlery door opened behind him. He leapt in shock, and turning
quickly, saw Cho Chang holding a letter and a parcel in her hands.
“Hi,” said Harry automatically.
“Oh . . . hi,” she said breathlessly. “I didn’t think anyone would be up
here this early.  .  .  . I only remembered five minutes ago, it’s my mum’s
birthday.”
She held up the parcel.
“Right,” said Harry. His brain seemed to have jammed. He wanted to say
something funny and interesting, but the memory of that terrible winged
horse was fresh in his mind.

“Nice day,” he said, gesturing to the windows. His insides seemed to
shrivel with embarrassment. The weather. He was talking about the
weather. . . .
“Yeah,” said Cho, looking around for a suitable owl. “Good Quidditch
conditions. I haven’t been out all week, have you?”
“No,” said Harry.

Cho had selected one of the school barn owls. She coaxed it down onto
her arm where it held out an obliging leg so that she could attach the parcel.
“Hey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet?” she asked.
“Yeah,” said Harry. “It’s my friend Ron Weasley, d’you know him?”
“The Tornado-hater?” said Cho rather coolly. “Is he any good?”
“Yeah,” said Harry, “I think so. I didn’t see his tryout, though, I was in
detention.”

Cho looked up, the parcel only half-attached to the owl’s legs.
“That Umbridge woman’s foul,” she said in a low voice. “Putting you in
detention just because you told the truth about how — how — how he died.
Everyone heard about it, it was all over the school. You were really brave
standing up to her like that.”

Harry’s insides reinflated so rapidly he felt as though he might actually
float a few inches off the dropping-strewn floor. Who cared about a stupid
flying horse, Cho thought he had been really brave. . . . For a moment he
considered accidentally-on-purpose showing her his cut hand as he helped
her tie her parcel onto her owl. . . . But the very instant that this thrilling
thought occurred, the Owlery door opened again.

Filch, the caretaker, came wheezing into the room. There were purple
patches on his sunken, veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin
gray hair disheveled; he had obviously run here. Mrs. Norris came trotting
at his heels, gazing up at the owls overhead and mewing hungrily. There
was a restless shifting of wings from above, and a large brown owl snapped
his beak in a menacing fashion.
“Aha!” said Filch, taking a flat-footed step toward Harry, his pouchy
cheeks trembling with anger. “I’ve had a tip-off that you are intending to
place a massive order for Dungbombs!”
Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker.
“Who told you I was ordering Dungbombs?”
Cho was looking from Harry to Filch, also frowning; the barn owl on her
arm, tired of standing on one leg, gave an admonitory hoot but she ignored
it.

“I have my sources,” said Filch in a self-satisfied hiss. “Now hand over
whatever it is you’re sending.”
Feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled in posting off the
letter, Harry said, “I can’t, it’s gone.”
“Gone?” said Filch, his face contorting with rage.
“Gone,” said Harry calmly.
Filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few seconds, then raked
Harry’s robes with his eyes. “How do I know you haven’t got it in your
pocket?”
“Because —”
“I saw him send it,” said Cho angrily.
Filch rounded on her.
“You saw him — ?”
“That’s right, I saw him,” she said fiercely.
There was a moment’s pause in which Filch glared at Cho and Cho
glared right back, then the caretaker turned and shuffled back toward the
door. He stopped with his hand on the handle and looked back at Harry.
“If I get so much as a whiff of a Dungbomb . . .”
He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs. Norris cast a last longing look at
the owls and followed him.

Harry and Cho looked at each other.
“Thanks,” Harry said.
“No problem,” said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the barn owl’s other
leg, her face slightly pink. “You weren’t ordering Dungbombs, were you?”
“No,” said Harry.
“I wonder why he thought you were, then?” she said, as she carried the
owl to the window.
Harry shrugged; he was quite as mystified by that as she was, though,
oddly, it was not bothering him very much at the moment.
They left the Owlery together. At the entrance of a corridor that led
toward the west wing of the castle, Cho said, “I’m going this way. Well,
I’ll . . . I’ll see you around, Harry.”
“Yeah . . . see you.”

She smiled at him and departed. He walked on, feeling quietly elated. He
had managed to have an entire conversation with her and not embarrassed
himself once. . . . You were really brave standing up to her like that. . . . She
had called him brave. . . . She did not hate him for being alive. . . .
Of course, she had preferred Cedric, he knew that. . . . Though if he’d
only asked her to the ball before Cedric had, things might have turned out
differently. . . . She had seemed sincerely sorry that she had to refuse when
Harry had asked her. . . .
“Morning,” Harry said brightly to Ron and Hermione, joining them at the
Gryffindor table in the Great Hall.
“What are you looking so pleased about?” said Ron, eyeing Harry in
surprise.

“Erm . . . Quidditch later,” said Harry happily, pulling a large platter of
bacon and eggs toward him.
“Oh . . . yeah . . .” said Ron. He put down the bit of toast he was eating
and took a large swig of pumpkin juice. Then he said, “Listen . . . you don’t
fancy going out a bit earlier with me, do you? Just to — er — give me some
practice before training? So I can, you know, get my eye in a bit . . .”
“Yeah, okay,” said Harry.
“Look, I don’t think you should,” said Hermione seriously, “you’re both
really behind on homework as it —”

But she broke off; the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the Daily
Prophet was soaring toward her in the beak of a screech owl, which landed
perilously close to the sugar bowl and held out a leg; Hermione pushed a
Knut into its leather pouch, took the newspaper, and scanned the front page
critically as the owl took off again.
“Anything interesting?” said Ron; Harry smiled — he knew Ron was
keen to get her off the subject of homework.
“No,” she sighed, “just some guff about the bass player in the Weird
Sisters getting married . . .”

She opened the paper and disappeared behind it. Harry devoted himself
to another helping of eggs and bacon; Ron was staring up at the high
windows, looking slightly preoccupied.
“Wait a moment,” said Hermione suddenly. “Oh no . . . Sirius!”
“What’s happened?” said Harry, and he snatched at the paper so violently
that it ripped down the middle so that he and Hermione were holding half
each.

“‘The Ministry of Magic has received a tip-off from a reliable source that
Sirius Black, notorious mass murderer . . . blah blah blah . . . is currently
hiding in London!’” Hermione read from her half in an anguished whisper.
“Lucius Malfoy, I’ll bet anything,” said Harry in a low, furious voice.
“He did recognize Sirius on the platform . . .”
“What?” said Ron, looking alarmed. “You didn’t say —”
“Shh!” said the other two.
“.  .  .  ‘Ministry warns Wizarding community that Black is very
dangerous . . . killed thirteen people . . . broke out of Azkaban . . .’ the usual
rubbish,” Hermione concluded, laying down her half of the paper and
looking fearfully at Harry and Ron. “Well, he just won’t be able to leave the
house again, that’s all,” she whispered. “Dumbledore did warn him not to.”
Harry looked down glumly at the bit of the Prophet he had torn off. Most
of the page was devoted to an advertisement for Madame Malkin’s Robes
for All Occasions, which was apparently having a sale.
“Hey!” he said, flattening it down so Hermione and Ron could both see
it. “Look at this!”

“I’ve got all the robes I want,” said Ron.
“No,” said Harry, “look . . . this little piece here . . .”
Ron and Hermione bent closer to read it; the item was barely an inch
long and placed right at the bottom of a column. It was headlined:

TRESPASS AT MINISTRY
Sturgis Podmore, 38, of number two, Laburnum Gardens, Clapham,
has appeared in front of the Wizengamot charged with trespass and
attempted robbery at the Ministry of Magic on 31st August. Podmore
was arrested by Ministry of Magic watchwizard Eric Munch, who
found him attempting to force his way through a top-security door at
one o’clock in the morning. Podmore, who refused to speak in his own
defense, was convicted on both charges and sentenced to six months in
Azkaban.
“Sturgis Podmore?” said Ron slowly, “but he’s that bloke who looks like
his head’s been thatched, isn’t he? He’s one of the Ord —”
“Ron, shh!” said Hermione, casting a terrified look around them.
“Six months in Azkaban!” whispered Harry, shocked. “Just for trying to
get through a door!”
“Don’t be silly, it wasn’t just for trying to get through a door — what on
earth was he doing at the Ministry of Magic at one o’clock in the morning?”
breathed Hermione.
“D’you reckon he was doing something for the Order?” Ron muttered.
“Wait a moment . . .” said Harry slowly. “Sturgis was supposed to come
and see us off, remember?”
The other two looked at him.

“Yeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going to King’s Cross,
remember? And Moody was all annoyed because he didn’t turn up, so that
doesn’t seem like he was supposed to be on a job for them, does it?”
“Well, maybe they didn’t expect him to get caught,” said Hermione.
“It could be a frame-up!” Ron exclaimed excitedly. “No — listen!” he
went on, dropping his voice dramatically at the threatening look on
Hermione’s face. “The Ministry suspects he’s one of Dumbledore’s lot so
— I dunno — they lured him to the Ministry, and he wasn’t trying to get
through a door at all! Maybe they’ve just made something up to get him!”
There was a pause while Harry and Hermione considered this. Harry
thought it seemed far-fetched; Hermione, on the other hand, looked rather
impressed and said, “Do you know, I wouldn’t be at all surprised if that
were true.”

She folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. When Harry laid
down his knife and fork she seemed to come out of a reverie.
“Right, well, I think we should tackle that essay for Sprout on SelfFertilizing Shrubs first, and if we’re lucky we’ll be able to start
McGonagall’s Inanimatus Conjurus before lunch . . .”
Harry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of homework
awaiting him upstairs, but the sky was a clear, exhilarating blue, and he had
not been on his Firebolt all week. . . .

“I mean, we can do it tonight,” said Ron, as he and Harry walked down
the sloping lawns toward the Quidditch pitch, their broomsticks over their
shoulders, Hermione’s dire warnings that they would fail all their O.W.L.s
still ringing in their ears. “And we’ve got tomorrow. She gets too worked up
about work, that’s her trouble . . .” There was a pause and he added, in a
slightly more anxious tone, “D’you think she meant it when she said we
weren’t copying from her?”
“Yeah, I do,” said Harry. “Still, this is important too, we’ve got to
practice if we want to stay on the Quidditch team . . .”
“Yeah, that’s right,” said Ron in a heartened tone. “And we have got
plenty of time to do it all . . .”

Harry glanced over to his right as they approached the Quidditch pitch, to
where the trees of the Forbidden Forest were swaying darkly. Nothing flew
out of them; the sky was empty but for a few distant owls fluttering around
the Owlery Tower. He had enough to worry about; the flying horse wasn’t
doing him any harm: He pushed it out of his mind.
They collected balls from the cupboard in the changing room and set to
work, Ron guarding the three tall goalposts, Harry playing Chaser and
trying to get the Quaffle past Ron. Harry thought Ron was pretty good; he
blocked three-quarters of the goals Harry attempted to put past him and
played better the longer they practiced. After a couple of hours they
returned to the school, where they ate lunch, during which Hermione made
it quite clear that she thought they were irresponsible, then returned to the
Quidditch pitch for the real training session. All their teammates but
Angelina were already in the changing room when they entered.
“All right, Ron?” said George, winking at him.
“Yeah,” said Ron, who had become quieter and quieter all the way down
to the pitch.
“Ready to show us all up, Ickle Prefect?” said Fred, emerging touslehaired from the neck of his Quidditch robes, a slightly malicious grin on his
face.

“Shut up,” said Ron, stony-faced, pulling on his own team robes for the
first time. They fitted him well considering they had been Oliver Wood’s,
who was rather broader in the shoulder.
“Okay everyone,” said Angelina, entering from the Captain’s office,
already changed. “Let’s get to it; Alicia and Fred, if you can just bring the
ball crate out for us. Oh, and there are a couple of people out there watching
but I want you to just ignore them, all right?”
Something in her would-be casual voice made Harry think he might
know who the uninvited spectators were, and sure enough, when they left
the changing room for the bright sunlight of the pitch it was to a storm of
catcalls and jeers from the Slytherin Quidditch team and assorted hangerson, who were grouped halfway up the empty stands and whose voices
echoed loudly around the stadium.

“What’s that Weasley’s riding?” Malfoy called in his sneering drawl.
“Why would anyone put a Flying Charm on a moldy old log like that?”
Crabbe, Goyle, and Pansy Parkinson guffawed and shrieked with
laughter. Ron mounted his broom and kicked off from the ground and Harry
followed him, watching his ears turn red from behind.
“Ignore them,” he said, accelerating to catch up with Ron. “We’ll see
who’s laughing after we play them . . .”
“Exactly the attitude I want, Harry,” said Angelina approvingly, soaring
around them with the Quaffle under her arm and slowing to hover on the
spot in front of her airborne team. “Okay everyone, we’re going to start
with some passes just to warm up, the whole team please —”
“Hey, Johnson, what’s with that hairstyle anyway?” shrieked Pansy
Parkinson from below. “Why would anyone want to look like they’ve got
worms coming out of their head?”

Angelina swept her long braided hair out of her face and said calmly,
“Spread out, then, and let’s see what we can do . . .”
Harry reversed away from the others to the far side of the pitch. Ron fell
back toward the opposite goal. Angelina raised the Quaffle with one hand
and threw it hard to Fred, who passed to George, who passed to Harry, who
passed to Ron, who dropped it.
The Slytherins, led by Malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter. Ron,
who had pelted toward the ground to catch the Quaffle before it landed,
pulled out of the dive untidily, so that he slipped sideways on his broom,
and returned to playing height, blushing. Harry saw Fred and George
exchange looks, but uncharacteristically neither of them said anything, for
which he was grateful.
“Pass it on, Ron,” called Angelina, as though nothing had happened.
Ron threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed back to Harry, who passed
to George. . . .

“Hey, Potter, how’s your scar feeling?” called Malfoy. “Sure you don’t
need a lie-down? It must be, what, a whole week since you were in the
hospital wing, that’s a record for you, isn’t it?”
Fred passed to Angelina; she reverse passed to Harry, who had not been
expecting it, but caught it in the very tips of his fingers and passed it
quickly to Ron, who lunged for it and missed by inches.
“Come on now, Ron,” said Angelina crossly, as Ron dived for the ground
again, chasing the Quaffle. “Pay attention.”
It would have been hard to say whether Ron’s face or the Quaffle was a
deeper scarlet when he returned again to playing height. Malfoy and the rest
of the Slytherin team were howling with laughter.
On his third attempt, Ron caught the Quaffle; perhaps out of relief he
passed it on so enthusiastically that it soared straight through Katie’s
outstretched hands and hit her hard in the face.
“Sorry!” Ron groaned, zooming forward to see whether he had done any
damage.

“Get back in position, she’s fine!” barked Angelina. “But as you’re
passing to a teammate, do try not to knock her off her broom, won’t you?
We’ve got Bludgers for that!”
Katie’s nose was bleeding. Down below the Slytherins were stamping
their feet and jeering. Fred and George converged on Katie.
“Here, take this,” Fred told her, handing her something small and purple
from out of his pocket. “It’ll clear it up in no time.”
“All right,” called Angelina, “Fred, George, go and get your bats and a
Bludger; Ron, get up to the goalposts, Harry, release the Snitch when I say
so. We’re going to aim for Ron’s goal, obviously.”
Harry zoomed off after the twins to fetch the Snitch.
“Ron’s making a right pig’s ear of things, isn’t he?” muttered George, as
the three of them landed at the crate containing the balls and opened it to
extract one of the Bludgers and the Snitch.
“He’s just nervous,” said Harry. “He was fine when I was practicing with
him this morning.”

“Yeah, well, I hope he hasn’t peaked too soon,” said Fred gloomily.
They returned to the air. When Angelina blew her whistle, Harry released
the Snitch and Fred and George let fly the Bludger; from that moment on,
Harry was barely aware of what the others were doing. It was his job to
recapture the tiny fluttering golden ball that was worth a hundred and fifty
points to the Seeker’s team and doing so required enormous speed and skill.
He accelerated, rolling and swerving in and out of the Chasers, the warm
autumn air whipping his face and the distant yells of the Slytherins so much
meaningless roaring in his ears. . . . But too soon, the whistle brought him
to a halt again.

“Stop — stop — STOP!” screamed Angelina. “Ron — you’re not
covering your middle post!”
Harry looked around at Ron, who was hovering in front of the left-hand
hoop, leaving the other two completely unprotected.
“Oh . . . sorry . . .”
“You keep shifting around while you’re watching the Chasers!” said
Angelina. “Either stay in center position until you have to move to defend a
hoop, or else circle the hoops, but don’t drift vaguely off to one side, that’s
how you let in the last three goals!”
“Sorry . . .” Ron repeated, his red face shining like a beacon against the
bright blue sky.
“And Katie, can’t you do something about that nosebleed?”
“It’s just getting worse!” said Katie thickly, attempting to stem the flow
with her sleeve.

Harry glanced around at Fred, who was looking anxious and checking his
pockets. He saw Fred pull out something purple, examine it for a second,
and then look around at Katie, evidently horrorstruck.
“Well, let’s try again,” said Angelina. She was ignoring the Slytherins,
who had now set up a chant of “Gryffindor are losers, Gryffindor are
losers,” but there was a certain rigidity about her seat on the broom
nevertheless.

This time they had been flying for barely three minutes when Angelina’s
whistle sounded. Harry, who had just sighted the Snitch circling the
opposite goalpost, pulled up feeling distinctly aggrieved.
“What now?” he said impatiently to Alicia, who was nearest.
“Katie,” she said shortly.
Harry turned and saw Angelina, Fred, and George all flying as fast as
they could toward Katie. Harry and Alicia sped toward her too. It was plain
that Angelina had stopped training just in time; Katie was now chalk-white
and covered in blood.
“She needs the hospital wing,” said Angelina.
“We’ll take her,” said Fred. “She — er — might have swallowed a Blood
Blisterpod by mistake —”

“Well, there’s no point continuing with no Beaters and a Chaser gone,”
said Angelina glumly, as Fred and George zoomed off toward the castle
supporting Katie between them. “Come on, let’s go and get changed.”
The Slytherins continued to chant as they trailed back into the changing
rooms.
“How was practice?” asked Hermione rather coolly half an hour later, as
Harry and Ron climbed through the portrait hole into the Gryffindor
common room.
“It was —” Harry began.
“Completely lousy,” said Ron in a hollow voice, sinking into a chair
beside Hermione. She looked up at Ron and her frostiness seemed to melt.
“Well, it was only your first one,” she said consolingly, “it’s bound to
take time to —”

“Who said it was me who made it lousy?” snapped Ron.
“No one,” said Hermione, looking taken aback, “I thought —”
“You thought I was bound to be rubbish?”
“No, of course I didn’t! Look, you said it was lousy so I just —”
“I’m going to get started on some homework,” said Ron angrily and
stomped off to the staircase to the boys’ dormitories and vanished from
sight. Hermione turned to Harry.
“Was he lousy?”
“No,” said Harry loyally.
Hermione raised her eyebrows.
“Well, I suppose he could’ve played better,” Harry muttered, “but it was
only the first training session, like you said . . .”
Neither Harry nor Ron seemed to make much headway with their
homework that night. Harry knew Ron was too preoccupied with how badly
he had performed at Quidditch practice and he himself was having
difficulty in getting the chant of “Gryffindor are losers” out of his head.
They spent the whole of Sunday in the common room, buried in their
books while the room around them filled up, then emptied: It was another
clear, fine day and most of their fellow Gryffindors spent the day out in the
grounds, enjoying what might well be some of the last sunshine that year.
By the evening Harry felt as though somebody had been beating his brain
against the inside of his skull.
“You know, we probably should try and get more homework done during
the week,” Harry muttered to Ron, as they finally laid aside Professor
McGonagall’s long essay on the Inanimatus Conjurus spell and turned
miserably to Professor Sinistra’s equally long and difficult essay about
Jupiter’s moons.

“Yeah,” said Ron, rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and throwing his fifth
spoiled bit of parchment into the fire beside them. “Listen . . . shall we just
ask Hermione if we can have a look at what she’s done?”
Harry glanced over at her; she was sitting with Crookshanks on her lap
and chatting merrily to Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed in midair
in front of her, now knitting a pair of shapeless elf socks.
“No,” he said heavily, “you know she won’t let us.”
And so they worked on while the sky outside the windows became
steadily darker; slowly, the crowd in the common room began to thin again.
At half-past eleven, Hermione wandered over to them, yawning.
“Nearly done?”
“No,” said Ron shortly.
“Jupiter’s biggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto,” she said, pointing
over Ron’s shoulder at a line in his Astronomy essay, “and it’s Io that’s got
the volcanos.”

“Thanks,” snarled Ron, scratching out the offending sentences.
“Sorry, I only —”
“Yeah, well, if you’ve just come over here to criticize —”
“Ron —”
“I haven’t got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione, I’m up to
my neck in it here —”
“No — look!”
Hermione was pointing to the nearest window. Harry and Ron both
looked over. A handsome screech owl was standing on the windowsill,
gazing into the room at Ron.
“Isn’t that Hermes?” said Hermione, sounding amazed.
“Blimey, it is!” said Ron quietly, throwing down his quill and getting to
his feet. “What’s Percy writing to me for?”

He crossed to the window and opened it; Hermes flew inside, landed
upon Ron’s essay, and held out a leg to which a letter was attached. Ron
took it off and the owl departed at once, leaving inky footprints across
Ron’s drawing of the moon Io.
“That’s definitely Percy’s handwriting,” said Ron, sinking back into his
chair and staring at the words on the outside of the scroll: To Ronald
Weasley, Gryffindor House, Hogwarts. He looked up at the other two.
“What d’you reckon?”

“Open it!” said Hermione eagerly. Harry nodded.
Ron unrolled the scroll and began to read. The farther down the
parchment his eyes traveled, the more pronounced became his scowl. When
he had finished reading, he looked disgusted. He thrust the letter at Harry
and Hermione, who leaned toward each other to read it together:
Dear Ron,
I have only just heard (from no less a person than the Minister of
Magic himself, who has it from your new teacher, Professor Umbridge)
that you have become a Hogwarts prefect.
I was most pleasantly surprised when I heard this news and must
firstly offer my congratulations. I must admit that I have always been
afraid that you would take what we might call the “Fred and George”
route, rather than following in my footsteps, so you can imagine my
feelings on hearing you have stopped flouting authority and have
decided to shoulder some real responsibility.

But I want to give you more than congratulations, Ron, I want to
give you some advice, which is why I am sending this at night rather
than by the usual morning post. Hopefully you will be able to read this
away from prying eyes and avoid awkward questions.
From something the Minister let slip when telling me you are now a
prefect, I gather that you are still seeing a lot of Harry Potter. I must
tell you, Ron, that nothing could put you in danger of losing your
badge more than continued fraternization with that boy. Yes, I am sure
you are surprised to hear this — no doubt you will say that Potter has
always been Dumbledore’s favorite — but I feel bound to tell you that
Dumbledore may not be in charge at Hogwarts much longer and the
people who count have a very different — and probably more accurate
— view of Potter’s behavior. I shall say no more here, but if you look at
the Daily Prophet tomorrow you will get a good idea of the way the
wind is blowing — and see if you can spot yours truly!

Seriously, Ron, you do not want to be tarred with the same brush as
Potter, it could be very damaging to your future prospects, and I am
talking here about life after school too. As you must be aware, given
that our father escorted him to court, Potter had a disciplinary hearing
this summer in front of the whole Wizengamot and he did not come out
of it looking too good. He got off on a mere technicality if you ask me
and many of the people I’ve spoken to remain convinced of his guilt.
It may be that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter — I know that
he can be unbalanced and, for all I know, violent — but if you have
any worries about this, or have spotted anything else in Potter’s
behavior that is troubling you, I urge you to speak to Dolores
Umbridge, a really delightful woman, who I know will be only too
happy to advise you.

This leads me to my other bit of advice. As I have hinted above,
Dumbledore’s regime at Hogwarts may soon be over. Your loyalty,
Ron, should be not to him, but to the school and the Ministry. I am very
sorry to hear that so far Professor Umbridge is encountering very little
cooperation from staff as she strives to make those necessary changes
within Hogwarts that the Ministry so ardently desires (although she
should find this easier from next week — again, see the Prophet
tomorrow!). I shall say only this — a student who shows himself
willing to help Professor Umbridge now may be very well placed for
Head Boyship in a couple of years!

I am sorry that I was unable to see more of you over the summer. It
pains me to criticize our parents, but I am afraid I can no longer live
under their roof while they remain mixed up with the dangerous crowd
around Dumbledore (if you are writing to Mother at any point, you
might tell her that a certain Sturgis Podmore, who is a great friend of
Dumbledore’s, has recently been sent to Azkaban for trespass at the
Ministry. Perhaps that will open their eyes to the kind of petty
criminals with whom they are currently rubbing shoulders). I count
myself very lucky to have escaped the stigma of association with such
people — the Minister really could not be more gracious to me — and
I do hope, Ron, that you will not allow family ties to blind you to the
misguided nature of our parents’ beliefs and actions either. I sincerely
hope that, in time, they will realize how mistaken they were and I shall,
of course, be ready to accept a full apology when that day comes.
Please think over what I have said most carefully, particularly the
bit about Harry Potter, and congratulations again on becoming
prefect.
Your brother,

Harry looked up at Ron.
“Well,” he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole thing a
joke, “if you want to — er — what is it?” (He checked Percy’s letter.) “Oh
yeah — ‘sever ties’ with me, I swear I won’t get violent.”
“Give it back,” said Ron, holding out his hand. “He is —” Ron said
jerkily, tearing Percy’s letter in half, “the world’s” — he tore it into quarters
— “biggest” — he tore it into eighths — “git.” He threw the pieces into the
fire.

“Come on, we’ve got to get this finished some time before dawn,” he
said briskly to Harry, pulling Professor Sinistra’s essay back toward him.
Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression on her face.
“Oh, give them here,” she said abruptly.
“What?” said Ron.
“Give them to me, I’ll look through them and correct them,” she said.
“Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, you’re a lifesaver,” said Ron, “what
can I — ?”
“What you can say is, ‘We promise we’ll never leave our homework this
late again,’” she said, holding out both hands for their essays, but she
looked slightly amused all the same.
“Thanks a million, Hermione,” said Harry weakly, passing over his essay
and sinking back into his armchair, rubbing his eyes.
It was now past midnight and the common room was deserted but for the
three of them and Crookshanks. The only sound was that of Hermione’s
quill scratching out sentences here and there on their essays and the ruffle
of pages as she checked various facts in the reference books strewn across
the table. Harry was exhausted. He also felt an odd, sick, empty feeling in
his stomach that had nothing to do with tiredness and everything to do with
the letter now curling blackly in the heart of the fire.

He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought him strange, even
mad; he knew that the Daily Prophet had been making snide allusions to
him for months, but there was something about seeing it written down like
that in Percy’s writing, about knowing that Percy was advising Ron to drop
him and even to tell tales on him to Umbridge, that made his situation real
to him as nothing else had. He had known Percy for four years, had stayed
in his house during the summers, shared a tent with him during the
Quidditch World Cup, had even been awarded full marks by him in the
second task of the Triwizard Tournament last year, yet now, Percy thought
him unbalanced and possibly violent.

And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry thought that Sirius
was probably the only person he knew who could really understand how he
felt at the moment, because Sirius was in the same situation; nearly
everyone in the Wizarding world thought Sirius a dangerous murderer and a
great Voldemort supporter and he had had to live with that knowledge for
fourteen years. . . .
Harry blinked. He had just seen something in the fire that could not have
been there. It had flashed into sight and vanished immediately. No . . . it
could not have been. . . . He had imagined it because he had been thinking
about Sirius. . . .

“Okay, write that down,” Hermione said to Ron, pushing his essay and a
sheet covered in her own writing back to Ron, “and then copy out this
conclusion that I’ve written for you.”
“Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful person I’ve ever met,”
said Ron weakly, “and if I’m ever rude to you again —”
“— I’ll know you’re back to normal,” said Hermione. “Harry, yours is
okay except for this bit at the end, I think you must have misheard Professor
Sinistra, Europa’s covered in ice, not mice — Harry?”
Harry had slid off his chair onto his knees and was now crouching on the
singed and threadbare hearthrug, gazing into the flames.
“Er — Harry?” said Ron uncertainly. “Why are you down there?”
“Because I’ve just seen Sirius’s head in the fire,” said Harry.
He spoke quite calmly; after all, he had seen Sirius’s head in this very fire
the previous year and talked to it too. Nevertheless, he could not be sure
that he had really seen it this time. . . . It had vanished so quickly. . . .
“Sirius’s head?” Hermione repeated. “You mean like when he wanted to
talk to you during the Triwizard Tournament? But he wouldn’t do that now,
it would be too — Sirius!”

She gasped, gazing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. There in the middle
of the dancing flames sat Sirius’s head, long dark hair falling around his
grinning face.
“I was starting to think you’d go to bed before everyone else had
disappeared,” he said. “I’ve been checking every hour.”
“You’ve been popping into the fire every hour?” Harry said, half
laughing.

“Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear yet.”
“But what if you’d been seen?” said Hermione anxiously.
“Well, I think a girl — first year by the look of her — might’ve got a
glimpse of me earlier, but don’t worry,” Sirius said hastily, as Hermione
clapped a hand to her mouth. “I was gone the moment she looked back at
me and I’ll bet she just thought I was an oddly shaped log or something.”
“But Sirius, this is taking an awful risk —” Hermione began.
“You sound like Molly,” said Sirius. “This was the only way I could
come up with of answering Harry’s letter without resorting to a code — and
codes are breakable.”
At the mention of Harry’s letter, Hermione and Ron had both turned to
stare at him.

“You didn’t say you’d written to Sirius!” said Hermione accusingly.
“I forgot,” said Harry, which was perfectly true; his meeting with Cho in
the Owlery had driven everything before it out of his mind. “Don’t look at
me like that, Hermione, there was no way anyone would have got secret
information out of it, was there, Sirius?”
“No, it was very good,” said Sirius, smiling. “Anyway, we’d better be
quick, just in case we’re disturbed — your scar.”
“What about — ?” Ron began, but Hermione said quickly, “We’ll tell you
afterward, go on, Sirius.”
“Well, I know it can’t be fun when it hurts, but we don’t think it’s
anything to really worry about. It kept aching all last year, didn’t it?”
“Yeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever Voldemort was
feeling a powerful emotion,” said Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and
Hermione’s winces. “So maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry or
something the night I had that detention.”

“Well, now he’s back it’s bound to hurt more often,” said Sirius.
“So you don’t think it had anything to do with Umbridge touching me
when I was in detention with her?” Harry asked.
“I doubt it,” said Sirius. “I know her by reputation and I’m sure she’s no
Death Eater —”
“She’s foul enough to be one,” said Harry darkly and Ron and Hermione
nodded vigorously in agreement.
“Yes, but the world isn’t split into good people and Death Eaters,” said
Sirius with a wry smile. “I know she’s a nasty piece of work, though — you
should hear Remus talk about her.”
“Does Lupin know her?” asked Harry quickly, remembering Umbridge’s
comments about dangerous half-breeds during her first lesson.
“No,” said Sirius, “but she drafted a bit of anti-werewolf legislation two
years ago that makes it almost impossible for him to get a job.”
Harry remembered how much shabbier Lupin looked these days and his
dislike of Umbridge deepened even further.

“What’s she got against werewolves?” said Hermione angrily.
“Scared of them, I expect,” said Sirius, smiling at her indignation.
“Apparently she loathes part-humans; she campaigned to have merpeople
rounded up and tagged last year too. Imagine wasting your time and energy
persecuting merpeople when there are little toerags like Kreacher on the
loose —”
Ron laughed but Hermione looked upset.
“Sirius!” she said reproachfully. “Honestly, if you made a bit of an effort
with Kreacher I’m sure he’d respond, after all, you are the only member of
his family he’s got left, and Professor Dumbledore said —”
“So what are Umbridge’s lessons like?” Sirius interrupted. “Is she
training you all to kill half-breeds?”
“No,” said Harry, ignoring Hermione’s affronted look at being cut off in
her defense of Kreacher. “She’s not letting us use magic at all!”
“All we do is read the stupid textbook,” said Ron.
“Ah, well, that figures,” said Sirius. “Our information from inside the
Ministry is that Fudge doesn’t want you trained in combat.”
“Trained in combat?” repeated Harry incredulously. “What does he think
we’re doing here, forming some sort of wizard army?”

“That’s exactly what he thinks you’re doing,” said Sirius, “or rather,
that’s exactly what he’s afraid Dumbledore’s doing — forming his own
private army, with which he will be able to take on the Ministry of Magic.”
There was a pause at this, then Ron said, “That’s the stupidest thing I’ve
ever heard, including all the stuff that Luna Lovegood comes out with.”
“So we’re being prevented from learning Defense Against the Dark Arts
because Fudge is scared we’ll use spells against the Ministry?” said
Hermione, looking furious.
“Yep,” said Sirius. “Fudge thinks Dumbledore will stop at nothing to
seize power. He’s getting more paranoid about Dumbledore by the day. It’s
a matter of time before he has Dumbledore arrested on some trumped-up
charge.”

This reminded Harry of Percy’s letter.
“D’you know if there’s going to be anything about Dumbledore in the
Daily Prophet tomorrow? Only Ron’s brother Percy reckons there will be
—”
“I don’t know,” said Sirius, “I haven’t seen anyone from the Order all
weekend, they’re all busy. It’s just been Kreacher and me here . . .”
There was a definite note of bitterness in Sirius’s voice.
“So you haven’t had any news about Hagrid, either?”
“Ah . . .” said Sirius, “well, he was supposed to be back by now, no one’s
sure what’s happened to him.” Then, seeing their stricken faces, he added
quickly, “But Dumbledore’s not worried, so don’t you three get yourselves
in a state; I’m sure Hagrid’s fine.”
“But if he was supposed to be back by now  .  .  .” said Hermione in a
small, worried voice.

“Madame Maxime was with him, we’ve been in touch with her and she
says they got separated on the journey home — but there’s nothing to
suggest he’s hurt or — well, nothing to suggest he’s not perfectly okay.”
Unconvinced, Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged worried looks.
“Listen, don’t go asking too many questions about Hagrid,” said Sirius
hastily, “it’ll just draw even more attention to the fact that he’s not back,
and I know Dumbledore doesn’t want that. Hagrid’s tough, he’ll be okay.”
And when they did not appear cheered by this, Sirius added, “When’s your
next Hogsmeade weekend anyway? I was thinking, we got away with the
dog disguise at the station, didn’t we? I thought I could —”
“NO!” said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly.
“Sirius, didn’t you see the Daily Prophet?” said Hermione anxiously.
“Oh that,” said Sirius, grinning, “they’re always guessing where I am,
they haven’t really got a clue —”
“Yeah, but we think this time they have,” said Harry. “Something Malfoy
said on the train made us think he knew it was you, and his father was on
the platform, Sirius — you know, Lucius Malfoy — so don’t come up here,
whatever you do, if Malfoy recognizes you again —”
“All right, all right, I’ve got the point,” said Sirius. He looked most
displeased. “Just an idea, thought you might like to get together —”
“I would, I just don’t want you chucked back in Azkaban!” said Harry.
There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the fire at Harry, a crease
between his sunken eyes.

“You’re less like your father than I thought,” he said finally, a definite
coolness in his voice. “The risk would’ve been what made it fun for James.”
“Look —”
“Well, I’d better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming down the stairs,”
said Sirius, but Harry was sure he was lying. “I’ll write to tell you a time I
can make it back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to risk it?”
There was a tiny pop, and the place where Sirius’s head had been was
flickering flame once more.


CHAPTER  FIFTEEN

THE HOGWARTS HIGH INQUISITOR

hey had expected to have to comb Hermione’s Daily Prophet
carefully next morning to find the article Percy had mentioned in his
letter. However, the departing delivery owl had barely cleared the top of the
milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and flattened the newspaper to
reveal a large photograph of Dolores Umbridge, smiling widely and
blinking slowly at them from beneath the headline:
MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM DOLORES
UMBRIDGE APPOINTED FIRST-EVER “HIGH INQUISITOR”
“‘High Inquisitor’?” said Harry darkly, his half-eaten bit of toast slipping
from his fingers. “What does that mean?”
Hermione read aloud:

“In a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic passed new
legislation giving itself an unprecedented level of control at Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
“‘The Minister has been growing uneasy about goings-on at Hogwarts
for some time,’ said Junior Assistant to the Minister, Percy Weasley. ‘He is
now responding to concerns voiced by anxious parents, who feel the school
may be moving in a direction they do not approve.’
“This is not the first time in recent weeks Fudge has used new laws to
effect improvements at the Wizarding school. As recently as August 30th
Educational Decree Twenty-two was passed, to ensure that, in the event of
the current headmaster being unable to provide a candidate for a teaching
post, the Ministry should select an appropriate person.
“‘That’s how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed to the teaching
staff at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley last night. ‘Dumbledore couldn’t find
anyone, so the Minister put in Umbridge and of course, she’s been an
immediate success —’”

“She’s been a WHAT?” said Harry loudly.
“Wait, there’s more,” said Hermione grimly.
“‘— an immediate success, totally revolutionizing the teaching of
Defense Against the Dark Arts and providing the Minister with on-theground feedback about what’s really happening at Hogwarts.’
“It is this last function that the Ministry has now formalized with the
passing of Educational Decree Twenty-three, which creates the new position
of ‘Hogwarts High Inquisitor.’
“‘This is an exciting new phase in the Minister’s plan to get to grips with
what some are calling the “falling standards” at Hogwarts,’ said Weasley.
‘The Inquisitor will have powers to inspect her fellow educators and make
sure that they are coming up to scratch. Professor Umbridge has been
offered this position in addition to her own teaching post, and we are
delighted to say that she has accepted.’
“The Ministry’s new moves have received enthusiastic support from
parents of students at Hogwarts.

“‘I feel much easier in my mind now that I know that Dumbledore is
being subjected to fair and objective evaluation,’ said Mr. Lucius Malfoy,
41, speaking from his Wiltshire mansion last night. ‘Many of us with our
children’s best interests at heart have been concerned about some of
Dumbledore’s eccentric decisions in the last few years and will be glad to
know that the Ministry is keeping an eye on the situation.’
“Among those ‘eccentric decisions’ are undoubtedly the controversial
staff appointments previously described in this newspaper, which have
included the hiring of werewolf Remus Lupin, half-giant Rubeus Hagrid,
and delusional ex-Auror ‘Mad-Eye’ Moody.
“Rumors abound, of course, that Albus Dumbledore, once Supreme
Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards and Chief Warlock
of the Wizengamot, is no longer up to the task of managing the prestigious
school of Hogwarts.
“‘I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step toward ensuring
that Hogwarts has a headmaster in whom we can all repose confidence,’
said a Ministry insider last night.

“Wizengamot elders Griselda Marchbanks and Tiberius Ogden have
resigned in protest at the introduction of the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts.
“‘Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudge’s office,’ said
Madam Marchbanks. ‘This is a further disgusting attempt to discredit Albus
Dumbledore.’ (For a full account of Madam Marchbanks’ alleged links to
subversive goblin groups, turn to page 17.)”
Hermione finished reading and looked across the table at the other two.
“So now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! Fudge passed this
‘Educational Decree’ and forced her on us! And now he’s given her the
power to inspect other teachers!” Hermione was breathing fast and her eyes
were very bright. “I can’t believe this. It’s outrageous . . . ”
“I know it is,” said Harry. He looked down at his right hand, clenched
upon the tabletop, and saw the faint white outline of the words Umbridge
had forced him to cut into his skin.
But a grin was unfurling on Ron’s face.

“What?” said Harry and Hermione together, staring at him.
“Oh, I can’t wait to see McGonagall inspected,” said Ron happily.
“Umbridge won’t know what’s hit her.”
“Well, come on,” said Hermione, jumping up, “we’d better get going, if
she’s inspecting Binns’s class we don’t want to be late . . .”
But Professor Umbridge was not inspecting their History of Magic
lesson, which was just as dull as the previous Monday, nor was she in
Snape’s dungeon when they arrived for double Potions, where Harry’s
moonstone essay was handed back to him with a large, spiky black D
scrawled in an upper corner.

“I have awarded you the grades you would have received if you
presented this work in your O.W.L.,” said Snape with a smirk, as he swept
among them, passing back their homework. “This should give you a
realistic idea of what to expect in your examination.”
Snape reached the front of the class and turned to face them.
“The general standard of this homework was abysmal. Most of you
would have failed had this been your examination. I expect to see a great
deal more effort for this week’s essay on the various varieties of venom
antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out detentions to those dunces
who get D’s.”
He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a carrying whisper, “Some
people got D’s? Ha!”

Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to see what grade he
had received; he slid his moonstone essay back into his bag as quickly as
possible, feeling that he would rather keep that information private.
Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him this lesson, Harry
read and reread every line of the instructions on the blackboard at least
three times before acting on them. His Strengthening Solution was not
precisely the clear turquoise shade of Hermione’s but it was at least blue
rather than pink, like Neville’s, and he delivered a flask of it to Snape’s
desk at the end of the lesson with a feeling of mingled defiance and relief.
“Well, that wasn’t as bad as last week, was it?” said Hermione, as they
climbed the steps out of the dungeon and made their way across the
entrance hall toward lunch. “And the homework didn’t go too badly either,
did it?”

When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed on, “I mean, all right,
I didn’t expect the top grade, not if he’s marking to O.W.L. standard, but a
pass is quite encouraging at this stage, wouldn’t you say?”
Harry made a noncommittal noise in his throat.
“Of course, a lot can happen between now and the exam, we’ve got
plenty of time to improve, but the grades we’re getting now are a sort of
baseline, aren’t they? Something we can build on . . .”
They sat down together at the Gryffindor table.
“Obviously, I’d have been thrilled if I’d gotten an O —”
“Hermione,” said Ron sharply, “if you want to know what grades we got,
ask.”

“I don’t — I didn’t mean — well, if you want to tell me —”
“I got a P,” said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. “Happy?”
“Well, that’s nothing to be ashamed of,” said Fred, who had just arrived
at the table with George and Lee Jordan and was sitting down on Harry’s
right. “Nothing wrong with a good healthy P.”
“But,” said Hermione, “doesn’t P stand for . . .”
“‘Poor,’ yeah,” said Lee Jordan. “Still, better than D, isn’t it?
‘Dreadful’?”
Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small coughing fit over his
roll. When he emerged from this he was sorry to find that Hermione was
still in full flow about O.W.L. grades.
“So top grade’s O for ‘Outstanding,’” she was saying, “and then there’s
A —”

“No, E,” George corrected her, “E for ‘Exceeds Expectations.’ And I’ve
always thought Fred and I should’ve got E in everything, because we
exceeded expectations just by turning up for the exams.”
They all laughed except Hermione, who plowed on, “So after E, it’s A
for ‘Acceptable,’ and that’s the last pass grade, isn’t it?”
“Yep,” said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, transferring it to his
mouth, and swallowing it whole.
“Then you get P for ‘Poor’” — Ron raised both his arms in mock
celebration — “and D for ‘Dreadful.’”
“And then T,” George reminded him.
“T?” asked Hermione, looking appalled. “Even lower than a D? What on
earth does that stand for?”
“‘Troll,’” said George promptly.
Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether or not George was
joking. He imagined trying to conceal from Hermione that he had received
T’s in all his O.W.L.s and immediately resolved to work harder from now
on.

“You lot had an inspected lesson yet?” Fred asked them.
“No,” said Hermione at once, “have you?”
“Just now, before lunch,” said George. “Charms.”
“What was it like?” Harry and Hermione asked together.
Fred shrugged.
“Not that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner making notes on a
clipboard. You know what Flitwick’s like, he treated her like a guest, didn’t
seem to bother him at all. She didn’t say much. Asked Alicia a couple of
questions about what the classes are normally like, Alicia told her they were
really good, that was it.”
“I can’t see old Flitwick getting marked down,” said George, “he usually
gets everyone through their exams all right.”
“Who’ve you got this afternoon?” Fred asked Harry.
“Trelawney —”
“A T if ever I saw one —”

“— and Umbridge herself.”
“Well, be a good boy and keep your temper with Umbridge today,” said
George. “Angelina’ll do her nut if you miss any more Quidditch practices.”
But Harry did not have to wait for Defense Against the Dark Arts to meet
Professor Umbridge. He was pulling out his dream diary in a seat at the
very back of the shadowy Divination room when Ron elbowed him in the
ribs and, looking round, he saw Professor Umbridge emerging through the
trapdoor in the floor. The class, which had been talking cheerily, fell silent
at once. The abrupt fall in the noise level made Professor Trelawney, who
had been wafting about handing out Dream Oracles, look round.
“Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney,” said Professor Umbridge with
her wide smile. “You received my note, I trust? Giving the time and date of
your inspection?”

Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very disgruntled, turned
her back on Professor Umbridge and continued to give out books. Still
smiling, Professor Umbridge grasped the back of the nearest armchair and
pulled it to the front of the class so that it was a few inches behind Professor
Trelawney’s seat. She then sat down, took her clipboard from her flowery
bag, and looked up expectantly, waiting for the class to begin.
Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her with slightly
trembling hands and surveyed the class through her hugely magnifying
lenses. “We shall be continuing our study of prophetic dreams today,” she
said in a brave attempt at her usual mystic tones, though her voice shook
slightly. “Divide into pairs, please, and interpret each other’s latest
nighttime visions with the aid of the Oracle.”
She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw Professor Umbridge
sitting right beside it, and immediately veered left toward Parvati and
Lavender, who were already deep in discussion about Parvati’s most recent
dream.

Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching Umbridge
covertly. She was making notes on her clipboard now. After a few minutes
she got to her feet and began to pace the room in Trelawney’s wake,
listening to her conversations with students and posing questions here and
there. Harry bent his head hurriedly over his book.
“Think of a dream, quick,” he told Ron, “in case the old toad comes our
way.”
“I did it last time,” Ron protested, “it’s your turn, you tell me one.”
“Oh, I dunno  .  .  .” said Harry desperately, who could not remember
dreaming anything at all over the last few days. “Let’s say I dreamed I
was . . . drowning Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, that’ll do . . .”
Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle.
“Okay, we’ve got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the
number of letters in the subject . . . would that be ‘drowning’ or ‘cauldron’
or ‘Snape’?”

“It doesn’t matter, pick any of them,” said Harry, chancing a glance
behind him. Professor Umbridge was now standing at Professor
Trelawney’s shoulder making notes while the Divination teacher questioned
Neville about his dream diary.
“What night did you dream this again?” Ron said, immersed in
calculations.
“I dunno, last night, whenever you like,” Harry told him, trying to listen
to what Umbridge was saying to Professor Trelawney. They were only a
table away from him and Ron now. Professor Umbridge was making
another note on her clipboard and Professor Trelawney was looking
extremely put out.
“Now,” said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, “you’ve been in this
post how long, exactly?”
Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoulders hunched
as though wishing to protect herself as much as possible from the indignity
of the inspection. After a slight pause in which she seemed to decide that
the question was not so offensive that she could reasonably ignore it, she
said in a deeply resentful tone, “Nearly sixteen years.”
“Quite a period,” said Professor Umbridge, making a note on her
clipboard. “So it was Professor Dumbledore who appointed you?”
“That’s right,” said Professor Trelawney shortly.
Professor Umbridge made another note.
“And you are a great-great-granddaughter of the celebrated Seer
Cassandra Trelawney?”
“Yes,” said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a little higher.
Another note on the clipboard.
“But I think — correct me if I am mistaken — that you are the first in
your family since Cassandra to be possessed of second sight?”
“These things often skip — er — three generations,” said Professor
Trelawney.

Professor Umbridge’s toadlike smile widened.
“Of course,” she said sweetly, making yet another note. “Well, if you
could just predict something for me, then?”
She looked up inquiringly, still smiling. Professor Trelawney had
stiffened as though unable to believe her ears.
“I don’t understand you,” said Professor Trelawney, clutching
convulsively at the shawl around her scrawny neck.
“I’d like you to make a prediction for me,” said Professor Umbridge very
clearly.
Harry and Ron were not the only people watching and listening sneakily
from behind their books now; most of the class were staring transfixed at
Professor Trelawney as she drew herself up to her full height, her beads and
bangles clinking.
“The Inner Eye does not See upon command!” she said in scandalized
tones.
“I see,” said Professor Umbridge softly, making yet another note on her
clipboard.

“I — but — but  .  .  . wait!” said Professor Trelawney suddenly, in an
attempt at her usual ethereal voice, though the mystical effect was ruined
somewhat by the way it was shaking with anger. “I  .  .  . I think I do see
something . . . something that concerns you. . . . Why, I sense something . . .
something dark . . . some grave peril . . .”
Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at Professor Umbridge who
continued to smile blandly at her, eyebrows raised.
“I am afraid  .  .  . I am afraid that you are in grave danger!” Professor
Trelawney finished dramatically.
There was a pause. Professor Umbridge’s eyebrows were still raised.
“Right,” she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard once more. “Well, if
that’s really the best you can do . . .”

She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney standing rooted to the
spot, her chest heaving. Harry caught Ron’s eye and knew that Ron was
thinking exactly the same as he was: They both knew that Professor
Trelawney was an old fraud, but on the other hand, they loathed Umbridge
so much that they felt very much on Trelawney’s side — until she swooped
down on them a few seconds later, that was.
“Well?” she said, snapping her long fingers under Harry’s nose,
uncharacteristically brisk. “Let me see the start you’ve made on your dream
diary, please.”

And by the time she had interpreted Harry’s dreams at the top of her
voice (all of which, even the ones that involved eating porridge, apparently
foretold a gruesome and early death), he was feeling much less sympathetic
toward her. All the while, Professor Umbridge stood a few feet away,
making notes on that clipboard, and when the bell rang she descended the
silver ladder first so that she was waiting for them all when they reached
their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson ten minutes later.
She was humming and smiling to herself when they entered the room.
Harry and Ron told Hermione, who had been in Arithmancy, exactly what
had happened in Divination while they all took out their copies of Defensive
Magical Theory, but before Hermione could ask any questions Professor
Umbridge had called them all to order and silence fell.

“Wands away,” she instructed them all smilingly, and those people who
had been hopeful enough to take them out sadly returned them to their bags.
“As we finished chapter one last lesson, I would like you all to turn to page
nineteen today and commence chapter two, ‘Common Defensive Theories
and Their Derivation.’ There will be no need to talk.”
Still smiling her wide, self-satisfied smile, she sat down at her desk. The
class gave an audible sigh as it turned, as one, to page nineteen. Harry
wondered dully whether there were enough chapters in the book to keep
them reading through all this year’s lessons and was on the point of
checking the contents when he noticed that Hermione had her hand in the
air again.

Professor Umbridge had noticed too, and what was more, she seemed to
have worked out a strategy for just such an eventuality. Instead of trying to
pretend she had not noticed Hermione, she got to her feet and walked
around the front row of desks until they were face-to-face, then she bent
down and whispered, so that the rest of the class could not hear, “What is it
this time, Miss Granger?”

“I’ve already read chapter two,” said Hermione.
“Well then, proceed to chapter three.”
“I’ve read that too. I’ve read the whole book.”
Professor Umbridge blinked but recovered her poise almost instantly.
“Well, then, you should be able to tell me what Slinkhard says about
counterjinxes in chapter fifteen.”
“He says that counterjinxes are improperly named,” said Hermione
promptly. “He says ‘counterjinx’ is just a name people give their jinxes
when they want to make them sound more acceptable.”
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows, and Harry knew she was
impressed against her will.

“But I disagree,” Hermione continued.
Professor Umbridge’s eyebrows rose a little higher and her gaze became
distinctly colder.
“You disagree?”
“Yes, I do,” said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, was not whispering,
but speaking in a clear, carrying voice that had by now attracted the rest of
the class’s attention. “Mr. Slinkhard doesn’t like jinxes, does he? But I think
they can be very useful when they’re used defensively.”
“Oh, you do, do you?” said Professor Umbridge, forgetting to whisper
and straightening up. “Well, I’m afraid it is Mr. Slinkhard’s opinion, and not
yours, that matters within this classroom, Miss Granger.”
“But —” Hermione began.
“That is enough,” said Professor Umbridge. She walked back to the front
of the class and stood before them, all the jauntiness she had shown at the
beginning of the lesson gone. “Miss Granger, I am going to take five points
from Gryffindor House.”

There was an outbreak of muttering at this.
“What for?” said Harry angrily.
“Don’t you get involved!” Hermione whispered urgently to him.
“For disrupting my class with pointless interruptions,” said Professor
Umbridge smoothly. “I am here to teach you using a Ministry-approved
method that does not include inviting students to give their opinions on
matters about which they understand very little. Your previous teachers in
this subject may have allowed you more license, but as none of them —
with the possible exception of Professor Quirrell, who did at least appear to
have restricted himself to age-appropriate subjects — would have passed a
Ministry inspection —”

“Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher,” said Harry loudly, “there was just
that minor drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out of the back
of his head.”
This pronouncement was followed by one of the loudest silences Harry
had ever heard. Then —
“I think another week’s detentions would do you some good, Mr. Potter,”
said Umbridge sleekly.
The cut on the back of Harry’s hand had barely healed and by the following
morning, it was bleeding again. He did not complain during the evening’s
detention; he was determined not to give Umbridge the satisfaction; over
and over again he wrote I must not tell lies and not a sound escaped his lips,
though the cut deepened with every letter.

The very worst part of this second week’s worth of detentions was, just
as George had predicted, Angelina’s reaction. She cornered him just as he
arrived at the Gryffindor table for breakfast on Tuesday and shouted so
loudly that Professor McGonagall came sweeping down upon the pair of
them from the staff table.
“Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in the Great Hall! Five
points from Gryffindor!”
“But Professor — he’s gone and landed himself in detention again —”
“What’s this, Potter?” said Professor McGonagall sharply, rounding on
Harry. “Detention? From whom?”

“From Professor Umbridge,” muttered Harry, not meeting Professor
McGonagall’s beady, square-framed eyes.
“Are you telling me,” she said, lowering her voice so that the group of
curious Ravenclaws behind them could not hear, “that after the warning I
gave you last Monday you lost your temper in Professor Umbridge’s class
again?”

“Yes,” Harry muttered, speaking to the floor.
“Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are heading for serious
trouble! Another five points from Gryffindor!”
“But — what? Professor, no!” Harry said, furious at this injustice. “I’m
already being punished by her, why do you have to take points as well?”
“Because detentions do not appear to have any effect on you
whatsoever!” said Professor McGonagall tartly. “No, not another word of
complaint, Potter! And as for you, Miss Johnson, you will confine your
shouting matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk losing the team
Captaincy!”

She strode back toward the staff table. Angelina gave Harry a look of
deepest disgust and stalked away, upon which Harry flung himself onto the
bench beside Ron, fuming.
“She’s taken points off Gryffindor because I’m having my hand sliced
open every night! How is that fair, how?”
“I know, mate,” said Ron sympathetically, tipping bacon onto Harry’s
plate, “she’s bang out of order.”
Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her Daily Prophet and
said nothing.
“You think McGonagall was right, do you?” said Harry angrily to the
picture of Cornelius Fudge obscuring Hermione’s face.
“I wish she hadn’t taken points from you, but I think she’s right to warn
you not to lose your temper with Umbridge,” said Hermione’s voice, while
Fudge gesticulated forcefully from the front page, clearly giving some kind
of speech.

Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, but when they
entered Transfiguration he forgot his anger; Professor Umbridge and her
clipboard were sitting in a corner and the sight of her drove the memory of
breakfast right out of his head.
“Excellent,” whispered Ron, as they sat down in their usual seats. “Let’s
see Umbridge get what she deserves.”
Professor McGonagall marched into the room without giving the slightest
indication that she knew Professor Umbridge was there.
“That will do,” she said and silence fell immediately. “Mr. Finnigan,
kindly come here and hand back the homework — Miss Brown, please take
this box of mice — don’t be silly, girl, they won’t hurt you — and hand one
to each student —”

“Hem, hem,” said Professor Umbridge, employing the same silly little
cough she had used to interrupt Dumbledore on the first night of term.
Professor McGonagall ignored her. Seamus handed back Harry’s essay;
Harry took it without looking at him and saw, to his relief, that he had
managed an A.
“Right then, everyone, listen closely — Dean Thomas, if you do that to
the mouse again I shall put you in detention — most of you have now
successfully vanished your snails and even those who were left with a
certain amount of shell have the gist of the spell. Today we shall be —”
“Hem, hem,” said Professor Umbridge.

“Yes?” said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her eyebrows so close
together they seemed to form one long, severe line.
“I was just wondering, Professor, whether you received my note telling
you of the date and time of your inspec —”
“Obviously I received it, or I would have asked you what you are doing
in my classroom,” said Professor McGonagall, turning her back firmly on
Professor Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks of glee. “As I
was saying, today we shall be practicing the altogether more difficult
vanishment of mice. Now, the Vanishing Spell —”
“Hem, hem.”

“I wonder,” said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, turning on Professor
Umbridge, “how you expect to gain an idea of my usual teaching methods
if you continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not generally permit people to
talk when I am talking.”
Professor Umbridge looked as though she had just been slapped in the
face. She did not speak, but straightened the parchment on her clipboard
and began scribbling furiously. Looking supremely unconcerned, Professor
McGonagall addressed the class once more.
“As I was saying, the Vanishing Spell becomes more difficult with the
complexity of the animal to be vanished. The snail, as an invertebrate, does
not present much of a challenge; the mouse, as a mammal, offers a much
greater one. This is not, therefore, magic you can accomplish with your
mind on your dinner. So — you know the incantation, let me see what you
can do . . .”

“How she can lecture me about not losing my temper with Umbridge!”
Harry said to Ron under his voice, but he was grinning; his anger with
Professor McGonagall had quite evaporated.
Professor Umbridge did not follow Professor McGonagall around the
class as she had followed Professor Trelawney; perhaps she thought that
Professor McGonagall would not permit it. She did, however, take many
more notes while she sat in her corner, and when Professor McGonagall
finally told them all to pack away, rose with a grim expression on her face.
“Well, it’s a start,” said Ron, holding up a long, wriggling mouse tail and
dropping it back into the box Lavender was passing around.
As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw Professor Umbridge
approach the teacher’s desk; he nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn,
and the three of them deliberately fell back to eavesdrop.
“How long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?” Professor Umbridge
asked.

“Thirty-nine years this December,” said Professor McGonagall
brusquely, snapping her bag shut.
Professor Umbridge made a note.
“Very well,” she said, “you will receive the results of your inspection in
ten days’ time.”
“I can hardly wait,” said Professor McGonagall in a coldly indifferent
voice, and she strode off toward the door. “Hurry up, you three,” she added,
sweeping Harry, Ron, and Hermione before her. Harry could not help
giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he received one in return.
He had thought that the next time he would see Umbridge would be in
his detention that evening, but he was wrong. When they walked down the
lawns toward the forest for Care of Magical Creatures, they found her and
her clipboard waiting for them beside Professor Grubbly-Plank.

“You do not usually take this class, is that correct?” Harry heard her ask
as they arrived at the trestle table where the group of captive bowtruckles
were scrabbling around for wood lice like so many living twigs.
“Quite correct,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, hands behind her back
and bouncing on the balls of her feet. “I am a substitute teacher standing in
for Professor Hagrid.”

Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and Hermione. Malfoy was
whispering with Crabbe and Goyle; he would surely love this opportunity to
tell tales on Hagrid to a member of the Ministry.
“Hmm,” said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, though Harry
could still hear her quite clearly, “I wonder — the headmaster seems
strangely reluctant to give me any information on the matter — can you tell
me what is causing Professor Hagrid’s very extended leave of absence?”
Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly.
“’Fraid I can’t,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank breezily. “Don’t know
anything more about it than you do. Got an owl from Dumbledore, would I
like a couple of weeks teaching work, accepted — that’s as much as I know.
Well . . . shall I get started then?”
“Yes, please do,” said Professor Umbridge, scribbling upon her
clipboard.

Umbridge took a different tack in this class and wandered among the
students, questioning them on magical creatures. Most people were able to
answer well and Harry’s spirits lifted somewhat; at least the class was not
letting Hagrid down.
“Overall,” said Professor Umbridge, returning to Professor GrubblyPlank’s side after a lengthy interrogation of Dean Thomas, “how do you, as
a temporary member of staff — an objective outsider, I suppose you might
say — how do you find Hogwarts? Do you feel you receive enough support
from the school management?”
“Oh, yes, Dumbledore’s excellent,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank
heartily. “No, I’m very happy with the way things are run, very happy
indeed.”

Looking politely incredulous, Umbridge made a tiny note on her
clipboard and went on, “And what are you planning to cover with this class
this year — assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not return?”
“Oh, I’ll take them through the creatures that most often come up in
O.W.L.,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank. “Not much left to do — they’ve
studied unicorns and nifflers, I thought we’d cover porlocks and kneazles,
make sure they can recognize crups and knarls, you know . . .”
“Well, you seem to know what you’re doing, at any rate,” said Professor
Umbridge, making a very obvious tick on her clipboard. Harry did not like
the emphasis she put on “you” and liked it even less when she put her next
question to Goyle: “Now, I hear there have been injuries in this class?”
Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer the question.

“That was me,” he said. “I was slashed by a hippogriff.”
“A hippogriff?” said Professor Umbridge, now scribbling frantically.
“Only because he was too stupid to listen to what Hagrid told him to do,”
said Harry angrily.
Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umbridge turned her head
slowly in Harry’s direction.
“Another night’s detention, I think,” she said softly. “Well, thank you
very much, Professor Grubbly-Plank, I think that’s all I need here. You will
be receiving the results of your inspection within ten days.”
“Jolly good,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and Professor Umbridge set
off back across the lawn to the castle.

It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridge’s office that night, his
hand now bleeding so severely that it was staining the scarf he had wrapped
around it. He expected the common room to be empty when he returned,
but Ron and Hermione had sat up waiting for him. He was pleased to see
them, especially as Hermione was disposed to be sympathetic rather than
critical.
“Here,” she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of yellow liquid toward
him, “soak your hand in that, it’s a solution of strained and pickled murtlap
tentacles, it should help.”
Harry placed his bleeding, aching hand into the bowl and experienced a
wonderful feeling of relief. Crookshanks curled around his legs, purring
loudly, and then leapt into his lap and settled down.
“Thanks,” he said gratefully, scratching behind Crookshanks’s ears with
his left hand.
“I still reckon you should complain about this,” said Ron in a low voice.
“No,” said Harry flatly.

“McGonagall would go nuts if she knew —”
“Yeah, she probably would,” said Harry. “And how long d’you reckon
it’d take Umbridge to pass another Decree saying anyone who complains
about the High Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?”
Ron opened his mouth to retort but nothing came out and after a moment
he closed it again in a defeated sort of way.
“She’s an awful woman,” said Hermione in a small voice. “Awful. You
know, I was just saying to Ron when you came in  .  .  . we’ve got to do
something about her.”

“I suggested poison,” said Ron grimly.
“No . . . I mean, something about what a dreadful teacher she is, and how
we’re not going to learn any defense from her at all,” said Hermione.
“Well, what can we do about that?” said Ron, yawning. “’S too late, isn’t
it? She got the job, she’s here to stay, Fudge’ll make sure of that.”
“Well,” said Hermione tentatively. “You know, I was thinking today . . .”
She shot a slightly nervous look at Harry and then plunged on, “I was
thinking that — maybe the time’s come when we should just — just do it
ourselves.”

“Do what ourselves?” said Harry suspiciously, still floating his hand in
the essence of murtlap tentacles.
“Well — learn Defense Against the Dark Arts ourselves,” said Hermione.
“Come off it,” groaned Ron. “You want us to do extra work? D’you
realize Harry and I are behind on homework again and it’s only the second
week?”
“But this is much more important than homework!” said Hermione.
Harry and Ron goggled at her.
“I didn’t think there was anything in the universe more important than
homework,” said Ron.

“Don’t be silly, of course there is!” said Hermione, and Harry saw, with
an ominous feeling, that her face was suddenly alight with the kind of
fervor that S.P.E.W. usually inspired in her. “It’s about preparing ourselves,
like Harry said in Umbridge’s first lesson, for what’s waiting out there. It’s
about making sure we really can defend ourselves. If we don’t learn
anything for a whole year —”
“We can’t do much by ourselves,” said Ron in a defeated voice. “I mean,
all right, we can go and look jinxes up in the library and try and practice
them, I suppose —”

“No, I agree, we’ve gone past the stage where we can just learn things
out of books,” said Hermione. “We need a teacher, a proper one, who can
show us how to use the spells and correct us if we’re going wrong.”
“If you’re talking about Lupin . . .” Harry began.
“No, no, I’m not talking about Lupin,” said Hermione. “He’s too busy
with the Order and anyway, the most we could see him is during
Hogsmeade weekends and that’s not nearly often enough.”
“Who, then?” said Harry, frowning at her.
Hermione heaved a very deep sigh.

“Isn’t it obvious?” she said. “I’m talking about you, Harry.”
There was a moment’s silence. A light night breeze rattled the
windowpanes behind Ron and the fire guttered.
“About me what?” said Harry.
“I’m talking about you teaching us Defense Against the Dark Arts.”
Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to exchange the
exasperated looks they sometimes shared when Hermione elaborated on farfetched schemes like S.P.E.W. To Harry’s consternation, however, Ron did
not look exasperated. He was frowning slightly, apparently thinking. Then
he said, “That’s an idea.”
“What’s an idea?” said Harry.

“You,” said Ron. “Teaching us to do it.”
“But . . .”
Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were pulling his leg.
“But I’m not a teacher, I can’t —”
“Harry, you’re the best in the year at Defense Against the Dark Arts,”
said Hermione.
“Me?” said Harry, now grinning more broadly than ever. “No I’m not,
you’ve beaten me in every test —”
“Actually, I haven’t,” said Hermione coolly. “You beat me in our third
year — the only year we both sat the test and had a teacher who actually
knew the subject. But I’m not talking about test results, Harry. Look what
you’ve done!”

“How d’you mean?”
“You know what, I’m not sure I want someone this stupid teaching me,”
Ron said to Hermione, smirking slightly. He turned to Harry. “Let’s think,”
he said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. “Uh . . . first year — you
saved the Stone from You-Know-Who.”
“But that was luck,” said Harry, “that wasn’t skill —”
“Second year,” Ron interrupted, “you killed the basilisk and destroyed
Riddle.”
“Yeah, but if Fawkes hadn’t turned up I —”

“Third year,” said Ron, louder still, “you fought off about a hundred
dementors at once —”
“You know that was a fluke, if the Time-Turner hadn’t —”
“Last year,” Ron said, almost shouting now, “you fought off You-KnowWho again —”
“Listen to me!” said Harry, almost angrily, because Ron and Hermione
were both smirking now. “Just listen to me, all right? It sounds great when
you say it like that, but all that stuff was luck — I didn’t know what I was
doing half the time, I didn’t plan any of it, I just did whatever I could think
of, and I nearly always had help —”

Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt his temper rise; he
wasn’t even sure why he was feeling so angry.
“Don’t sit there grinning like you know better than I do, I was there,
wasn’t I?” he said heatedly. “I know what went on, all right? And I didn’t
get through any of that because I was brilliant at Defense Against the Dark
Arts, I got through it all because — because help came at the right time, or
because I guessed right — but I just blundered through it all, I didn’t have a
clue what I was doing — STOP LAUGHING!”
The bowl of murtlap essence fell to the floor and smashed. He became
aware that he was on his feet, though he couldn’t remember standing up.
Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa; Ron and Hermione’s smiles had
vanished.

“You don’t know what it’s like! You — neither of you — you’ve never
had to face him, have you? You think it’s just memorizing a bunch of spells
and throwing them at him, like you’re in class or something? The whole
time you know there’s nothing between you and dying except your own —
your own brain or guts or whatever — like you can think straight when you
know you’re about a second from being murdered, or tortured, or watching
your friends die — they’ve never taught us that in their classes, what it’s
like to deal with things like that — and you two sit there acting like I’m a
clever little boy to be standing here, alive, like Diggory was stupid, like he
messed up — you just don’t get it, that could just as easily have been me, it
would have been if Voldemort hadn’t needed me —”

“We weren’t saying anything like that, mate,” said Ron, looking aghast.
“We weren’t having a go at Diggory, we didn’t — you’ve got the wrong end
of the —”
He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was stricken.
“Harry,” she said timidly, “don’t you see? This . . . this is exactly why we
need you. . . . We need to know what it’s r-really like . . . facing him . . .
facing V-Voldemort.”
It was the first time she had ever said Voldemort’s name, and it was this,
more than anything else, that calmed Harry. Still breathing hard, he sank
back into his chair, becoming aware as he did so that his hand was
throbbing horribly again. He wished he had not smashed the bowl of
murtlap essence.

“Well . . . think about it,” said Hermione quietly. “Please?”
Harry could not think of anything to say. He was feeling ashamed of his
outburst already. He nodded, hardly aware of what he was agreeing to.
Hermione stood up.
“Well, I’m off to bed,” she said in a voice that was clearly as natural as
she could make it. “Erm . . . ’night.”
Ron had gotten to his feet too.
“Coming?” he said awkwardly to Harry.
“Yeah,” said Harry. “In . . . in a minute. I’ll just clear this up.”
He indicated the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron nodded and left.
“Reparo,” Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the broken pieces of
china. They flew back together, good as new, but there was no returning the
murtlap essence to the bowl.

He was suddenly so tired that he was tempted to sink back into his
armchair and sleep there, but instead he got to his feet and followed Ron
upstairs. His restless night was punctuated once more by dreams of long
corridors and locked doors, and he awoke next day with his scar prickling
again.


CHAPTER  SIXTEEN

IN THE HOG’S HEAD

ermione made no mention of Harry giving Defense Against the Dark
Arts lessons for two whole weeks after her original suggestion.
Harry’s detentions with Umbridge were finally over (he doubted whether
the words now etched on the back of his hand would ever fade entirely);
Ron had had four more Quidditch practices and not been shouted at during
the last two; and all three of them had managed to vanish their mice in
Transfiguration (Hermione had actually progressed to vanishing kittens),
before the subject was broached again, on a wild, blustery evening at the
end of September, when the three of them were sitting in the library,
looking up potion ingredients for Snape.

“I was wondering,” Hermione said suddenly, “whether you’d thought any
more about Defense Against the Dark Arts, Harry.”
“’Course I have,” said Harry grumpily. “Can’t forget it, can we, with that
hag teaching us —”
“I meant the idea Ron and I had” — Ron cast her an alarmed, threatening
kind of look; she frowned at him — “oh, all right, the idea I had, then —
about you teaching us.”

Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to be perusing a page of
Asiatic Anti-Venoms, because he did not want to say what was in his mind.
The fact was that he had given the matter a great deal of thought over the
past fortnight. Sometimes it seemed an insane idea, just as it had on the
night Hermione had proposed it, but at others, he had found himself
thinking about the spells that had served him best in his various encounters
with Dark creatures and Death Eaters — found himself, in fact,
subconsciously planning lessons. . . .

“Well,” he said slowly, when he could not pretend to find Asiatic antivenoms interesting much longer, “yeah, I — I’ve thought about it a bit.”
“And?” said Hermione eagerly.
“I dunno,” said Harry, playing for time. He looked up at Ron.
“I thought it was a good idea from the start,” said Ron, who seemed
keener to join in this conversation now that he was sure that Harry was not
going to start shouting again.
Harry shifted uncomfortably in his chair.

“You did listen to what I said about a load of it being luck, didn’t you?”
“Yes, Harry,” said Hermione gently, “but all the same, there’s no point
pretending that you’re not good at Defense Against the Dark Arts, because
you are. You were the only person last year who could throw off the
Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a Patronus, you can do all
sorts of stuff that full-grown wizards can’t, Viktor always said —”
Ron looked around at her so fast he appeared to crick his neck; rubbing
it, he said, “Yeah? What did Vicky say?”
“Ho ho,” said Hermione in a bored voice. “He said Harry knew how to
do stuff even he didn’t, and he was in the final year at Durmstrang.”
Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously.

“You’re not still in contact with him, are you?”
“So what if I am?” said Hermione coolly, though her face was a little
pink. “I can have a pen pal if I —”
“He didn’t only want to be your pen pal,” said Ron accusingly.
Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring Ron, who was
continuing to watch her, said to Harry, “Well, what do you think? Will you
teach us?”
“Just you and Ron, yeah?”

“Well,” said Hermione, now looking a mite anxious again. “Well  .  .  .
now, don’t fly off the handle again, Harry, please. . . . But I really think you
ought to teach anyone who wants to learn. I mean, we’re talking about
defending ourselves against V-Voldemort — oh, don’t be pathetic, Ron — it
doesn’t seem fair if we don’t offer the chance to other people.”
Harry considered this for a moment, then said, “Yeah, but I doubt anyone
except you two would want to be taught by me. I’m a nutter, remember?”
“Well, I think you might be surprised how many people would be
interested in hearing what you’ve got to say,” said Hermione seriously.
“Look,” she leaned toward him; Ron, who was still watching her with a
frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, “you know the first weekend
in October’s a Hogsmeade weekend? How would it be if we tell anyone
who’s interested to meet us in the village and we can talk it over?”
“Why do we have to do it outside school?” said Ron.

“Because,” said Hermione, returning to the diagram of the Chinese
Chomping Cabbage she was copying, “I don’t think Umbridge would be
very happy if she found out what we were up to.”
Harry had been looking forward to the weekend trip into Hogsmeade, but
there was one thing worrying him. Sirius had maintained a stony silence
since he had appeared in the fire at the beginning of September; Harry knew
they had made him angry by saying that they did not want him to come —
but he still worried from time to time that Sirius might throw caution to the
winds and turn up anyway. What were they going to do if the great black
dog came bounding up the street toward them in Hogsmeade, perhaps under
the nose of Draco Malfoy?

“Well, you can’t blame him for wanting to get out and about,” said Ron,
when Harry discussed his fears with him and Hermione. “I mean, he’s been
on the run for over two years, hasn’t he, and I know that can’t have been a
laugh, but at least he was free, wasn’t he? And now he’s just shut up all the
time with that lunatic elf.”

Hermione scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the slight on Kreacher.
“The trouble is,” she said to Harry, “until V-Voldemort — oh for
heaven’s sake, Ron — comes out into the open, Sirius is going to have to
stay hidden, isn’t he? I mean, the stupid Ministry isn’t going to realize
Sirius is innocent until they accept that Dumbledore’s been telling the truth
about him all along. And once the fools start catching real Death Eaters
again it’ll be obvious Sirius isn’t one . . . I mean, he hasn’t got the Mark, for
one thing.”

“I don’t reckon he’d be stupid enough to turn up,” said Ron bracingly.
“Dumbledore’d go mad if he did and Sirius listens to Dumbledore even if
he doesn’t like what he hears.”
When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione said, “Listen, Ron and
I have been sounding out people who we thought might want to learn some
proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and there are a couple who seem
interested. We’ve told them to meet us in Hogsmeade.”
“Right,” said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius.
“Don’t worry, Harry,” Hermione said quietly. “You’ve got enough on
your plate without Sirius too.”

She was quite right, of course; he was barely keeping up with his
homework, though he was doing much better now that he was no longer
spending every evening in detention with Umbridge. Ron was even further
behind with his work than Harry, because while they both had Quidditch
practices twice a week, Ron also had prefect duties. However, Hermione,
who was taking more subjects than either of them, had not only finished all
her homework but was also finding time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had
to admit that she was getting better; it was now almost always possible to
distinguish between the hats and the socks.

The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned bright but windy. After
breakfast they queued up in front of Filch, who matched their names to the
long list of students who had permission from their parents or guardian to
visit the village. With a slight pang, Harry remembered that if it hadn’t been
for Sirius, he would not have been going at all.
When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great sniff as though
trying to detect a whiff of something from Harry. Then he gave a curt nod
that set his jowls aquiver again and Harry walked on, out onto the stone
steps and the cold, sunlit day.

“Er — why was Filch sniffing you?” asked Ron, as he, Harry, and
Hermione set off at a brisk pace down the wide drive to the gates.
“I suppose he was checking for the smell of Dungbombs,” said Harry
with a small laugh. “I forgot to tell you . . .”
And he recounted the story of sending his letter to Sirius and Filch
bursting in seconds later, demanding to see the letter. To his slight surprise,
Hermione found this story highly interesting, much more, indeed, than he
did himself.

“He said he was tipped off you were ordering Dungbombs? But who had
tipped him off?”
“I dunno,” said Harry, shrugging. “Maybe Malfoy, he’d think it was a
laugh.”
They walked between the tall stone pillars topped with winged boars and
turned left onto the road into the village, the wind whipping their hair into
their eyes.
“Malfoy?” said Hermione, very skeptically. “Well . . . yes . . . maybe . . .”
And she remained deep in thought all the way into the outskirts of
Hogsmeade.

“Where are we going anyway?” Harry asked. “The Three Broomsticks?”
“Oh — no,” said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, “no, it’s always
packed and really noisy. I’ve told the others to meet us in the Hog’s Head,
that other pub, you know the one, it’s not on the main road. I think it’s a
bit . . . you know . . . dodgy . . . but students don’t normally go in there, so I
don’t think we’ll be overheard.”
They walked down the main street past Zonko’s Joke Shop, where they
were unsurprised to see Fred, George, and Lee Jordan, past the post office,
from which owls issued at regular intervals, and turned up a side street at
the top of which stood a small inn. A battered wooden sign hung from a
rusty bracket over the door, with a picture upon it of a wild boar’s severed
head leaking blood onto the white cloth around it. The sign creaked in the
wind as they approached. All three of them hesitated outside the door.
“Well, come on,” said Hermione slightly nervously. Harry led the way
inside.

It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose large bar gave an
impression of gleaming warmth and cleanliness. The Hog’s Head bar
comprised one small, dingy, and very dirty room that smelled strongly of
something that might have been goats. The bay windows were so encrusted
with grime that very little daylight could permeate the room, which was lit
instead with the stubs of candles sitting on rough wooden tables. The floor
seemed at first glance to be earthy, though as Harry stepped onto it he
realized that there was stone beneath what seemed to be the accumulated
filth of centuries.

Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his first year: “Yeh get
a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s Head,” he had said, explaining how he had
won a dragon’s egg from a hooded stranger there. At the time Harry had
wondered why Hagrid had not found it odd that the stranger kept his face
hidden throughout their encounter; now he saw that keeping your face
hidden was something of a fashion in the Hog’s Head. There was a man at
the bar whose whole head was wrapped in dirty gray bandages, though he
was still managing to gulp endless glasses of some smoking, fiery substance
through a slit over his mouth. Two figures shrouded in hoods sat at a table
in one of the windows; Harry might have thought them dementors if they
had not been talking in strong Yorkshire accents; in a shadowy corner
beside the fireplace sat a witch with a thick, black veil that fell to her toes.
They could just see the tip of her nose because it caused the veil to protrude
slightly.

“I don’t know about this, Hermione,” Harry muttered, as they crossed to
the bar. He was looking particularly at the heavily veiled witch. “Has it
occurred to you Umbridge might be under that?”
Hermione cast an appraising eye at the veiled figure.
“Umbridge is shorter than that woman,” she said quietly. “And anyway,
even if Umbridge does come in here there’s nothing she can do to stop us,
Harry, because I’ve double- and triple-checked the school rules. We’re not
out-of-bounds; I specifically asked Professor Flitwick whether students
were allowed to come in the Hog’s Head, and he said yes, but he advised
me strongly to bring our own glasses. And I’ve looked up everything I can
think of about study groups and homework groups and they’re definitely
allowed. I just don’t think it’s a good idea if we parade what we’re doing.”
“No,” said Harry dryly, “especially as it’s not exactly a homework group
you’re planning, is it?”

The barman sidled toward them out of a back room. He was a grumpylooking old man with a great deal of long gray hair and beard. He was tall
and thin and looked vaguely familiar to Harry.
“What?” he grunted.
“Three butterbeers, please,” said Hermione.
The man reached beneath the counter and pulled up three very dusty,
very dirty bottles, which he slammed on the bar.
“Six Sickles,” he said.

“I’ll get them,” said Harry quickly, passing over the silver. The barman’s
eyes traveled over Harry, resting for a fraction of a second on his scar. Then
he turned away and deposited Harry’s money in an ancient wooden till
whose drawer slid open automatically to receive it. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione retreated to the farthest table from the bar and sat down, looking
around, while the man in the dirty gray bandages rapped the counter with
his knuckles and received another smoking drink from the barman.
“You know what?” Ron murmured, looking over at the bar with
enthusiasm. “We could order anything we liked in here, I bet that bloke
would sell us anything, he wouldn’t care. I’ve always wanted to try
firewhisky —”

“You — are — a — prefect,” snarled Hermione.
“Oh,” said Ron, the smile fading from his face. “Yeah . . .”
“So who did you say is supposed to be meeting us?” Harry asked,
wrenching open the rusty top of his butterbeer and taking a swig.
“Just a couple of people,” Hermione repeated, checking her watch and
then looking anxiously toward the door. “I told them to be here about now
and I’m sure they all know where it is — oh look, this might be them now
—”

The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of dusty sunlight split the
room in two for a moment and then vanished, blocked by the incoming rush
of a crowd of people.

First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were closely followed
by Parvati and Padma Patil with (Harry’s stomach did a back flip) Cho and
one of her usually giggling girlfriends, then (on her own and looking so
dreamy that she might have walked in by accident) Luna Lovegood; then
Katie Bell, Alicia Spinnet, and Angelina Johnson, Colin and Dennis
Creevey, Ernie Macmillan, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Hannah Abbott, and a
Hufflepuff girl with a long plait down her back whose name Harry did not
know; three Ravenclaw boys he was pretty sure were called Anthony
Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Terry Boot; Ginny, followed by a tall
skinny blond boy with an upturned nose whom Harry recognized vaguely as
being a member of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, and bringing up the rear,
Fred and George Weasley with their friend Lee Jordan, all three of whom
were carrying large paper bags crammed with Zonko’s merchandise.
“A couple of people?” said Harry hoarsely to Hermione. “A couple of
people?”

“Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular,” said Hermione happily. “Ron,
do you want to pull up some more chairs?”
The barman had frozen in the act of wiping out a glass with a rag so
filthy it looked as though it had never been washed. Possibly he had never
seen his pub so full.
“Hi,” said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting his companions
quickly. “Could we have . . . twenty-five butterbeers, please?”
The barman glared at him for a moment, then, throwing down his rag
irritably as though he had been interrupted in something very important, he
started passing up dusty butterbeers from under the bar.
“Cheers,” said Fred, handing them out. “Cough up, everyone, I haven’t
got enough gold for all of these . . .”

Harry watched numbly as the large chattering group took their beers from
Fred and rummaged in their robes to find coins. He could not imagine what
all these people had turned up for until the horrible thought occurred to him
that they might be expecting some kind of speech, at which he rounded on
Hermione.
“What have you been telling people?” he said in a low voice. “What are
they expecting?”
“I’ve told you, they just want to hear what you’ve got to say,” said
Hermione soothingly; but Harry continued to look at her so furiously that
she added quickly, “You don’t have to do anything yet, I’ll speak to them
first.”

“Hi, Harry,” said Neville, beaming and taking a seat opposite Harry.
Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his mouth was exceptionally
dry. Cho had just smiled at him and sat down on Ron’s right. Her friend,
who had curly reddish-blonde hair, did not smile, but gave Harry a
thoroughly mistrustful look that told Harry plainly that, given her way, she
would not be here at all.

In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around Harry, Ron, and
Hermione, some looking rather excited, others curious, Luna Lovegood
gazing dreamily into space. When everybody had pulled up a chair, the
chatter died out. Every eye was upon Harry.
“Er,” said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than usual out of nerves.
“Well — er — hi.”
The group focused its attention on her instead, though eyes continued to
dart back regularly to Harry.

“Well . . . erm . . . well, you know why you’re here. Erm . . . well, Harry
here had the idea — I mean” — Harry had thrown her a sharp look — “I
had the idea — that it might be good if people who wanted to study Defense
Against the Dark Arts — and I mean, really study it, you know, not the
rubbish that Umbridge is doing with us” — (Hermione’s voice became
suddenly much stronger and more confident) — “because nobody could call
that Defense Against the Dark Arts” — “Hear, hear,” said Anthony
Goldstein, and Hermione looked heartened — “well, I thought it would be
good if we, well, took matters into our own hands.”
She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, “And by that I mean
learning how to defend ourselves properly, not just theory but the real spells
—”

“You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L. too
though, I bet?” said Michael Corner.
“Of course I do,” said Hermione at once. “But I want more than that, I
want to be properly trained in Defense because . . . because . . .” She took a
great breath and finished, “Because Lord Voldemort’s back.”
The reaction was immediate and predictable. Cho’s friend shrieked and
slopped butterbeer down herself, Terry Boot gave a kind of involuntary
twitch, Padma Patil shuddered, and Neville gave an odd yelp that he
managed to turn into a cough. All of them, however, looked fixedly, even
eagerly, at Harry.

“Well . . . that’s the plan anyway,” said Hermione. “If you want to join
us, we need to decide how we’re going to —”
“Where’s the proof You-Know-Who’s back?” said the blond Hufflepuff
player in a rather aggressive voice.
“Well, Dumbledore believes it —” Hermione began.
“You mean, Dumbledore believes him,” said the blond boy, nodding at
Harry.

“Who are you?” said Ron rather rudely.
“Zacharias Smith,” said the boy, “and I think we’ve got the right to know
exactly what makes him say You-Know-Who’s back.”
“Look,” said Hermione, intervening swiftly, “that’s really not what this
meeting was supposed to be about —”
“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry.
It had just dawned upon him why there were so many people there. He
felt that Hermione should have seen this coming. Some of these people —
maybe even most of them — had turned up in the hope of hearing Harry’s
story firsthand.

“What makes me say You-Know-Who’s back?” he asked, looking
Zacharias straight in the face. “I saw him. But Dumbledore told the whole
school what happened last year, and if you didn’t believe him, you don’t
believe me, and I’m not wasting an afternoon trying to convince anyone.”
The whole group seemed to have held its breath while Harry spoke.

Harry had the impression that even the barman was listening in. He was
wiping the same glass with the filthy rag; it was becoming steadily dirtier.
Zacharias said dismissively, “All Dumbledore told us last year was that
Cedric Diggory got killed by You-Know-Who and that you brought
Diggory’s body back to Hogwarts. He didn’t give us details, he didn’t tell
us exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think we’d all like to know —”
“If you’ve come to hear exactly what it looks like when Voldemort
murders someone I can’t help you,” Harry said. His temper, always so close
to the surface these days, was rising again. He did not take his eyes from
Zacharias Smith’s aggressive face, determined not to look at Cho. “I don’t
want to talk about Cedric Diggory, all right? So if that’s what you’re here
for, you might as well clear out.”

He cast an angry look in Hermione’s direction. This was, he felt, all her
fault; she had decided to display him like some sort of freak and of course
they had all turned up to see just how wild his story was. . . . But none of
them left their seats, not even Zacharias Smith, though he continued to gaze
intently at Harry.

“So,” said Hermione, her voice very high-pitched again. “So . . . like I
was saying . . . if you want to learn some defense, then we need to work out
how we’re going to do it, how often we’re going to meet, and where we’re
going to —”
“Is it true,” interrupted the girl with the long plait down her back, looking
at Harry, “that you can produce a Patronus?”
There was a murmur of interest around the group at this.
“Yeah,” said Harry slightly defensively.
“A corporeal Patronus?”

The phrase stirred something in Harry’s memory.
“Er — you don’t know Madam Bones, do you?” he asked.
The girl smiled.
“She’s my auntie,” she said. “I’m Susan Bones. She told me about your
hearing. So — is it really true? You make a stag Patronus?”
“Yes,” said Harry.
“Blimey, Harry!” said Lee, looking deeply impressed. “I never knew
that!”
“Mum told Ron not to spread it around,” said Fred, grinning at Harry.
“She said you got enough attention as it was.”
“She’s not wrong,” mumbled Harry and a couple of people laughed. The
veiled witch sitting alone shifted very slightly in her seat.
“And did you kill a basilisk with that sword in Dumbledore’s office?”
demanded Terry Boot. “That’s what one of the portraits on the wall told me
when I was in there last year . . .”
“Er — yeah, I did, yeah,” said Harry.

Justin Finch-Fletchley whistled, the Creevey brothers exchanged
awestruck looks, and Lavender Brown said “wow” softly. Harry was feeling
slightly hot around the collar now; he was determinedly looking anywhere
but at Cho.
“And in our first year,” said Neville to the group at large, “he saved that
Sorcerous Stone —”
“Sorcerer’s,” hissed Hermione.
“Yes, that, from You-Know-Who,” finished Neville.
Hannah Abbott’s eyes were as round as Galleons.
“And that’s not to mention,” said Cho (Harry’s eyes snapped onto her,
she was looking at him, smiling; his stomach did another somersault), “all
the tasks he had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament last year —
getting past dragons and merpeople and acromantulas and things . . .”

There was a murmur of impressed agreement around the table. Harry’s
insides were squirming. He was trying to arrange his face so that he did not
look too pleased with himself. The fact that Cho had just praised him made
it much, much harder for him to say the thing he had sworn to himself he
would tell them.

“Look,” he said and everyone fell silent at once, “I . . . I don’t want to
sound like I’m trying to be modest or anything, but . . . I had a lot of help
with all that stuff . . .”
“Not with the dragon, you didn’t,” said Michael Corner at once. “That
was a seriously cool bit of flying . . .”
“Yeah, well —” said Harry, feeling it would be churlish to disagree.
“And nobody helped you get rid of those dementors this summer,” said
Susan Bones.
“No,” said Harry, “no, okay, I know I did bits of it without help, but the
point I’m trying to make is —”
“Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff?” said
Zacharias Smith.
“Here’s an idea,” said Ron loudly, before Harry could speak, “why don’t
you shut your mouth?”
Perhaps the word “weasel” had affected Ron particularly strongly; in any
case, he was now looking at Zacharias as though he would like nothing
better than to thump him. Zacharias flushed.
“Well, we’ve all turned up to learn from him, and now he’s telling us he
can’t really do any of it,” he said.

“That’s not what he said,” snarled Fred Weasley.
“Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?” inquired George,
pulling a long and lethal-looking metal instrument from inside one of the
Zonko’s bags.
“Or any part of your body, really, we’re not fussy where we stick this,”
said Fred.
“Yes, well,” said Hermione hastily, “moving on . . . the point is, are we
agreed we want to take lessons from Harry?”
There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias folded his arms and
said nothing, though perhaps this was because he was too busy keeping an
eye on the instrument in George’s hand.
“Right,” said Hermione, looking relieved that something had at last been
settled. “Well, then, the next question is how often we do it. I really don’t
think there’s any point in meeting less than once a week —”
“Hang on,” said Angelina, “we need to make sure this doesn’t clash with
our Quidditch practice.”

“No,” said Cho, “nor with ours.”
“Nor ours,” added Zacharias Smith.
“I’m sure we can find a night that suits everyone,” said Hermione,
slightly impatiently, “but you know, this is rather important, we’re talking
about learning to defend ourselves against V-Voldemort’s Death Eaters —”
“Well said!” barked Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry had been expecting to
speak long before this. “Personally I think this is really important, possibly
more important than anything else we’ll do this year, even with our O.W.L.s
coming up!”

He looked around impressively, as though waiting for people to cry,
“Surely not!” When nobody spoke, he went on, “I, personally, am at a loss
to see why the Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher upon us at this
critical period. Obviously they are in denial about the return of You-KnowWho, but to give us a teacher who is trying to actively prevent us from
using defensive spells —”

“We think the reason Umbridge doesn’t want us trained in Defense
Against the Dark Arts,” said Hermione, “is that she’s got some . . . some
mad idea that Dumbledore could use the students in the school as a kind of
private army. She thinks he’d mobilize us against the Ministry.”
Nearly everybody looked stunned at this news; everybody except Luna
Lovegood, who piped up, “Well, that makes sense. After all, Cornelius
Fudge has got his own private army.”
“What?” said Harry, completely thrown by this unexpected piece of
information.

“Yes, he’s got an army of heliopaths,” said Luna solemnly.
“No, he hasn’t,” snapped Hermione.
“Yes, he has,” said Luna.
“What are heliopaths?” asked Neville, looking blank.
“They’re spirits of fire,” said Luna, her protuberant eyes widening so that
she looked madder than ever. “Great tall flaming creatures that gallop
across the ground burning everything in front of —”
“They don’t exist, Neville,” said Hermione tartly.
“Oh yes they do!” said Luna angrily.
“I’m sorry, but where’s the proof of that?” snapped Hermione.
“There are plenty of eyewitness accounts, just because you’re so narrowminded you need to have everything shoved under your nose before you
—”

“Hem, hem,” said Ginny in such a good imitation of Professor Umbridge
that several people looked around in alarm and then laughed. “Weren’t we
trying to decide how often we’re going to meet and get Defense lessons?”
“Yes,” said Hermione at once, “yes, we were, you’re right . . .”
“Well, once a week sounds cool,” said Lee Jordan.
“As long as —” began Angelina.
“Yes, yes, we know about the Quidditch,” said Hermione in a tense
voice. “Well, the other thing to decide is where we’re going to meet . . .”
This was rather more difficult; the whole group fell silent.
“Library?” suggested Katie Bell after a few moments.
“I can’t see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us doing jinxes in the
library,” said Harry.

“Maybe an unused classroom?” said Dean.
“Yeah,” said Ron, “McGonagall might let us have hers, she did when
Harry was practicing for the Triwizard . . .”
But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would not be so
accommodating this time. For all that Hermione had said about study and
homework groups being allowed, he had the distinct feeling this one might
be considered a lot more rebellious.
“Right, well, we’ll try to find somewhere,” said Hermione. “We’ll send a
message round to everybody when we’ve got a time and a place for the first
meeting.”

She rummaged in her bag and produced parchment and a quill, then
hesitated, rather as though she was steeling herself to say something.
“I-I think everybody should write their name down, just so we know who
was here. But I also think,” she took a deep breath, “that we all ought to
agree not to shout about what we’re doing. So if you sign, you’re agreeing
not to tell Umbridge — or anybody else — what we’re up to.”
Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully put down his
signature, but Harry noticed at once that several people looked less than
happy at the prospect of putting their names on the list.
“Er . . .” said Zacharias slowly, not taking the parchment that George was
trying to pass him. “Well . . . I’m sure Ernie will tell me when the meeting
is.”

But Ernie was looking rather hesitant about signing too. Hermione raised
her eyebrows at him.
“I — well, we are prefects,” Ernie burst out. “And if this list was
found  .  .  . well, I mean to say  .  .  . you said yourself, if Umbridge finds
out . . .”
“You just said this group was the most important thing you’d do this
year,” Harry reminded him.
“I — yes,” said Ernie, “yes, I do believe that, it’s just . . .”
“Ernie, do you really think I’d leave that list lying around?” said
Hermione testily.
“No. No, of course not,” said Ernie, looking slightly less anxious. “I —
yes, of course I’ll sign.”

Nobody raised objections after Ernie, though Harry saw Cho’s friend
give her a rather reproachful look before adding her name. When the last
person — Zacharias — had signed, Hermione took the parchment back and
slipped it carefully into her bag. There was an odd feeling in the group now.
It was as though they had just signed some kind of contract.
“Well, time’s ticking on,” said Fred briskly, getting to his feet. “George,
Lee, and I have got items of a sensitive nature to purchase, we’ll be seeing
you all later.”

In twos and threes the rest of the group took their leave too. Cho made
rather a business of fastening the catch on her bag before leaving, her long
dark curtain of hair swinging forward to hide her face, but her friend stood
beside her, arms folded, clicking her tongue, so that Cho had little choice
but to leave with her. As her friend ushered her through the door, Cho
looked back and waved at Harry.

“Well, I think that went quite well,” said Hermione happily, as she, Harry,
and Ron walked out of the Hog’s Head into the bright sunlight a few
moments later, Harry and Ron still clutching their bottles of butterbeer.
“That Zacharias bloke’s a wart,” said Ron, who was glowering after the
figure of Smith just discernible in the distance.
“I don’t like him much either,” admitted Hermione, “but he overheard me
talking to Ernie and Hannah at the Hufflepuff table and he seemed really
interested in coming, so what could I say? But the more people the better
really — I mean, Michael Corner and his friends wouldn’t have come if he
hadn’t been going out with Ginny —”
Ron, who had been draining the last few drops from his butterbeer bottle,
gagged and sprayed butterbeer down his front.
“He’s WHAT?” said Ron, outraged, his ears now resembling curls of raw
beef. “She’s going out with — my sister’s going — what d’you mean,
Michael Corner?”
“Well, that’s why he and his friends came, I think — well, they’re
obviously interested in learning Defense, but if Ginny hadn’t told Michael
what was going on —”

“When did this — when did she — ?”
“They met at the Yule Ball and they got together at the end of last year,”
said Hermione composedly. They had turned into the High Street and she
paused outside Scrivenshaft’s Quill Shop, where there was a handsome
display of pheasant-feather quills in the window. “Hmm . . . I could do with
a new quill.”
She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed her.
“Which one was Michael Corner?” Ron demanded furiously.
“The dark one,” said Hermione.
“I didn’t like him,” said Ron at once.
“Big surprise,” said Hermione under her breath.
“But,” said Ron, following Hermione along a row of quills in copper
pots, “I thought Ginny fancied Harry!”
Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook her head.
“Ginny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him months ago. Not that
she doesn’t like you, of course,” she added kindly to Harry while she
examined a long black-and-gold quill.

Harry, whose head was still full of Cho’s parting wave, did not find this
subject quite as interesting as Ron, who was positively quivering with
indignation, but it did bring something home to him that until now he had
not really registered.
“So that’s why she talks now?” he asked Hermione. “She never used to
talk in front of me.”
“Exactly,” said Hermione. “Yes, I think I’ll have this one . . .”
She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen Sickles and two
Knuts, Ron still breathing down her neck.
“Ron,” she said severely as she turned and trod on his feet, “this is
exactly why Ginny hasn’t told you she’s seeing Michael, she knew you’d
take it badly. So don’t harp on about it, for heaven’s sake.”
“What d’you mean, who’s taking anything badly? I’m not going to harp
on about anything . . .”

Ron continued to chunter under his breath all the way down the street.
Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry and then said in an undertone, while Ron
was muttering imprecations about Michael Corner, “And talking about
Michael and Ginny . . . what about Cho and you?”
“What d’you mean?” said Harry quickly.
It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly inside him; a burning
sensation that was causing his face to smart in the cold — had he been that
obvious?
“Well,” said Hermione, smiling slightly, “she just couldn’t keep her eyes
off you, could she?”
Harry had never before appreciated just how beautiful the village of
Hogsmeade was.


CHAPTER  SEVENTEEN

EDUCATIONAL DECREE NUMBER TWENTYFOUR

arry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he had done all
term. He and Ron spent much of Sunday catching up with all their
homework again, and although this could hardly be called fun, the last burst
of autumn sunshine persisted, so rather than sitting hunched over tables in
the common room, they took their work outside and lounged in the shade of
a large beech tree on the edge of the lake. Hermione, who of course was up
to date with all her work, brought more wool outside with her and
bewitched her knitting needles so that they flashed and clicked in midair
beside her, producing more hats and scarves.

The knowledge that they were doing something to resist Umbridge and
the Ministry, and that he was a key part of the rebellion, gave Harry a
feeling of immense satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturday’s meeting in his
mind: all those people, coming to him to learn Defense Against the Dark
Arts . . . and the looks on their faces as they had heard some of the things he
had done  .  .  . and Cho praising his performance in the Triwizard
Tournament. . . . The knowledge that all those people did not think him a
lying weirdo, but someone to be admired, buoyed him up so much that he
was still cheerful on Monday morning, despite the imminent prospect of all
his least favorite classes.

He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory together, discussing
Angelina’s idea that they were to work on a new move called the Sloth Grip
Roll during that night’s Quidditch practice, and not until they were halfway
across the sunlit common room did they notice the addition to the room that
had already attracted the attention of a small group of people.
A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor notice board, so large that
it covered everything else on there — the lists of secondhand spellbooks for
sale, the regular reminders of school rules from Argus Filch, the Quidditch
team training schedule, the offers to barter certain Chocolate Frog cards for
others, the Weasleys’ new advertisement for testers, the dates of the
Hogsmeade weekends, and the lost-and-found notices. The new sign was
printed in large black letters and there was a highly official-looking seal at
the bottom beside a neat and curly signature.

——— BY ORDER OF ———
The High Inquisitor of Hogwarts
All Student Organizations, Societies, Teams, Groups, and Clubs are
henceforth disbanded.
An Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club is hereby defined
as a regular meeting of three or more students.
Permission to re-form may be sought from the High Inquisitor
(Professor Umbridge).
No Student Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club may exist
without the knowledge and approval of the High Inquisitor.
Any student found to have formed, or to belong to, an Organization,
Society, Team, Group, or Club that has not been approved by the High
Inquisitor will be expelled.
The above is in accordance with Educational Decree Number Twentyfour.
Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some anxious-looking
second years.

“Does this mean they’re going to shut down the Gobstones Club?” one of
them asked his friend.
“I reckon you’ll be okay with Gobstones,” Ron said darkly, making the
second year jump. “I don’t think we’re going to be as lucky, though, do
you?” he asked Harry as the second years hurried away.
Harry was reading the notice through again. The happiness that had filled
him since Saturday was gone. His insides were pulsing with rage.
“This isn’t a coincidence,” he said, his hands forming fists. “She knows.”
“She can’t,” said Ron at once.
“There were people listening in that pub. And let’s face it, we don’t know
how many of the people who turned up we can trust. . . . Any of them could
have run off and told Umbridge . . .”
And he had thought they believed him, thought they even admired
him . . .

“Zacharias Smith!” said Ron at once, punching a fist into his hand. “Or
— I thought that Michael Corner had a really shifty look too —”
“I wonder if Hermione’s seen this yet?” Harry said, looking around at the
door to the girls’ dormitories.
“Let’s go and tell her,” said Ron. He bounded forward, pulled open the
door, and set off up the spiral staircase.
He was on the sixth stair when it happened. There was a loud, wailing,
klaxonlike sound and the steps melted together to make a long, smooth
stone slide. There was a brief moment when Ron tried to keep running,
arms working madly like windmills, then he toppled over backward and
shot down the newly created slide, coming to rest on his back at Harry’s
feet.

“Er — I don’t think we’re allowed in the girls’ dormitories,” said Harry,
pulling Ron to his feet and trying not to laugh.
Two fourth-year girls came zooming gleefully down the stone slide.
“Oooh, who tried to get upstairs?” they giggled happily, leaping to their
feet and ogling Harry and Ron.
“Me,” said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. “I didn’t realize that
would happen. It’s not fair!” he added to Harry, as the girls headed off for
the portrait hole, still giggling madly. “Hermione’s allowed in our
dormitory, how come we’re not allowed — ?”
“Well, it’s an old-fashioned rule,” said Hermione, who had just slid
neatly onto a rug in front of them and was now getting to her feet, “but it
says in Hogwarts: A History that the founders thought boys were less
trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying to get in there?”
“To see you — look at this!” said Ron, dragging her over to the notice
board.

Hermione’s eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her expression became
stony.
“Someone must have blabbed to her!” Ron said angrily.
“They can’t have done,” said Hermione in a low voice.
“You’re so naive,” said Ron, “you think just because you’re all honorable
and trustworthy —”
“No, they can’t have done because I put a jinx on that piece of parchment
we all signed,” said Hermione grimly. “Believe me, if anyone’s run off and
told Umbridge, we’ll know exactly who they are and they will really regret
it.”
“What’ll happen to them?” said Ron eagerly.

“Well, put it this way,” said Hermione, “it’ll make Eloise Midgen’s acne
look like a couple of cute freckles. Come on, let’s get down to breakfast and
see what the others think. . . . I wonder whether this has been put up in all
the Houses?”
It was immediately apparent on entering the Great Hall that Umbridge’s
sign had not only appeared in Gryffindor Tower. There was a peculiar
intensity about the chatter and an extra measure of movement in the Hall as
people scurried up and down their tables conferring on what they had read.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had barely taken their seats when Neville, Dean,
Fred, George, and Ginny descended upon them.
“Did you see it?”
“D’you reckon she knows?”
“What are we going to do?”
They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to make sure there
were no teachers near them.
“We’re going to do it anyway, of course,” he said quietly.
“Knew you’d say that,” said George, beaming and thumping Harry on the
arm.

“The prefects as well?” said Fred, looking quizzically at Ron and
Hermione.
“Of course,” said Hermione coolly.
“Here comes Ernie and Hannah Abbott,” said Ron, looking over his
shoulder. “And those Ravenclaw blokes and Smith  .  .  . and no one looks
very spotty.”
Hermione looked alarmed.
“Never mind spots, the idiots can’t come over here now, it’ll look really
suspicious — sit down!” she mouthed to Ernie and Hannah, gesturing
frantically to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. “Later! We’ll — talk — to
— you — later!”
“I’ll tell Michael,” said Ginny impatiently, swinging herself off her
bench. “The fool, honestly . . .”

She hurried off toward the Ravenclaw table; Harry watched her go. Cho
was sitting not far away, talking to the curly-haired friend she had brought
along to the Hog’s Head. Would Umbridge’s notice scare her off meeting
them again?
But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt until they were leaving
the Great Hall for History of Magic.
“Harry! Ron!”
It was Angelina and she was hurrying toward them looking perfectly
desperate.
“It’s okay,” said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear him.
“We’re still going to —”
“You realize she’s including Quidditch in this?” Angelina said over him.
“We have to go and ask permission to re-form the Gryffindor team!”
“What?” said Harry.
“No way,” said Ron, appalled.

“You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, Harry  .  .  . I am
saying this for the last time. . . . Please, please don’t lose your temper with
Umbridge again or she might not let us play anymore!”
“Okay, okay,” said Harry, for Angelina looked as though she was on the
verge of tears. “Don’t worry, I’ll behave myself . . .”
“Bet Umbridge is in History of Magic,” said Ron grimly, as they set off
for Binns’s lesson. “She hasn’t inspected Binns yet. . . . Bet you anything
she’s there . . .”

But he was wrong; the only teacher present when they entered was
Professor Binns, floating an inch or so above his chair as usual and
preparing to continue his monotonous drone on giant wars. Harry did not
even attempt to follow what he was saying today; he doodled idly on his
parchment ignoring Hermione’s frequent glares and nudges, until a
particularly painful poke in the ribs made him look up angrily.
“What?”

She pointed at the window. Harry looked around. Hedwig was perched
on the narrow window ledge, gazing through the thick glass at him, a letter
tied to her leg. Harry could not understand it; they had just had breakfast,
why on earth hadn’t she delivered the letter then, as usual? Many of his
classmates were pointing out Hedwig to each other too.
“Oh, I’ve always loved that owl, she’s so beautiful,” Harry heard
Lavender sigh to Parvati.
He glanced around at Professor Binns who continued to read his notes,
serenely unaware that the class’s attention was even less focused upon him
than usual. Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched down, and hurried
along the row to the window, where he slid the catch and opened it very
slowly.

He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he could remove the
letter and then fly off to the Owlery, but the moment the window was open
wide enough she hopped inside, hooting dolefully. He closed the window
with an anxious glance at Professor Binns, crouched low again, and sped
back to his seat with Hedwig on his shoulder. He regained his seat,
transferred Hedwig to his lap, and made to remove the letter tied to her leg.
It was only then that he realized that Hedwig’s feathers were oddly
ruffled; some were bent the wrong way, and she was holding one of her
wings at an odd angle.

“She’s hurt!” Harry whispered, bending his head low over her. Hermione
and Ron leaned in closer; Hermione even put down her quill. “Look —
there’s something wrong with her wing —”
Hedwig was quivering; when Harry made to touch the wing she gave a
little jump, all her feathers on end as though she was inflating herself, and
gazed at him reproachfully.
“Professor Binns,” said Harry loudly, and everyone in the class turned to
look at him. “I’m not feeling well.”
Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, looking amazed, as
always, to find the room in front of him full of people.
“Not feeling well?” he repeated hazily.

“Not at all well,” said Harry firmly, getting to his feet while concealing
Hedwig behind his back. “So I think I’ll need to go to the hospital wing.”
“Yes,” said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrong-footed. “Yes . . .
yes, hospital wing . . . well, off you go, then, Perkins . . .”
Once outside the room Harry returned Hedwig to his shoulder and
hurried off up the corridor, pausing to think only when he was out of sight
of Binns’s door. His first choice of somebody to cure Hedwig would have
been Hagrid, of course, but as he had no idea where Hagrid was, his only
remaining option was to find Professor Grubbly-Plank and hope she would
help.

He peered out of a window at the blustery, overcast grounds. There was
no sign of her anywhere near Hagrid’s cabin; if she was not teaching, she
was probably in the staffroom. He set off downstairs, Hedwig hooting
feebly as she swayed on his shoulder.
Two stone gargoyles flanked the staffroom door. As Harry approached,
one of them croaked, “You should be in class, sunny Jim.”
“This is urgent,” said Harry curtly.
“Ooooh, urgent, is it?” said the other gargoyle in a high-pitched voice.
“Well, that’s put us in our place, hasn’t it?”
Harry knocked; he heard footsteps and then the door opened and he
found himself face-to-face with Professor McGonagall.
“You haven’t been given another detention!” she said at once, her square
spectacles flashing alarmingly.

“No, Professor!” said Harry hastily.
“Well then, why are you out of class?”
“It’s urgent, apparently,” said the second gargoyle snidely.
“I’m looking for Professor Grubbly-Plank,” Harry explained. “It’s my
owl, she’s injured.”
“Injured owl, did you say?”
Professor Grubbly-Plank appeared at Professor McGonagall’s shoulder,
smoking a pipe and holding a copy of the Daily Prophet.
“Yes,” said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his shoulder, “she turned
up after the other post owls and her wing’s all funny, look —”
Professor Grubbly-Plank stuck her pipe firmly between her teeth and
took Hedwig from Harry while Professor McGonagall watched.

“Hmm,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, her pipe waggling slightly as she
talked. “Looks like something’s attacked her. Can’t think what would have
done it, though. . . . Thestrals will sometimes go for birds, of course, but
Hagrid’s got the Hogwarts thestrals well trained not to touch owls . . .”
Harry neither knew nor cared what thestrals were, he just wanted to know
that Hedwig was going to be all right. Professor McGonagall, however,
looked sharply at Harry and said, “Do you know how far this owl’s
traveled, Potter?”

“Er,” said Harry. “From London, I think.”
He met her eyes briefly and knew that she understood “London” to mean
“number twelve, Grimmauld Place” by the way her eyebrows had joined in
the middle.
Professor Grubbly-Plank pulled a monocle out of the inside of her robes
and screwed it into her eye to examine Hedwig’s wing closely. “I should be
able to sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter,” she said. “She
shouldn’t be flying long distances for a few days, in any case.”
“Er — right — thanks,” said Harry, just as the bell rang for break.
“No problem,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank gruffly, turning back into
the staffroom.

“Just a moment, Wilhelmina!” said Professor McGonagall. “Potter’s
letter!”
“Oh yeah!” said Harry, who had momentarily forgotten the scroll tied to
Hedwig’s leg. Professor Grubbly-Plank handed it over and then disappeared
into the staffroom carrying Hedwig, who was staring at Harry as though
unable to believe he would give her away like this. Feeling slightly guilty,
he turned to go, but Professor McGonagall called him back.
“Potter!”
“Yes, Professor?”
She glanced up and down the corridor; there were students coming from
both directions.
“Bear in mind,” she said quickly and quietly, her eyes on the scroll in his
hand, “that channels of communication in and out of Hogwarts may be
being watched, won’t you?”
“I —” said Harry, but the flood of students rolling along the corridor was
almost upon him. Professor McGonagall gave him a curt nod and retreated
into the staffroom, leaving Harry to be swept out into the courtyard with the
crowd. Here he spotted Ron and Hermione already standing in a sheltered
corner, their cloak collars turned up against the wind. Harry slit open the
scroll as he hurried toward them and found five words in Sirius’s
handwriting:

Today, same time, same place.
“Is Hedwig okay?” asked Hermione anxiously, the moment he was
within earshot.
“Where did you take her?” asked Ron.
“To Grubbly-Plank,” said Harry. “And I met McGonagall . . . Listen . . .”
And he told them what Professor McGonagall had said. To his surprise,
neither of the others looked shocked; on the contrary, they exchanged
significant looks.
“What?” said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione and back again.
“Well, I was just saying to Ron . . . what if someone had tried to intercept
Hedwig? I mean, she’s never been hurt on a flight before, has she?”
“Who’s the letter from anyway?” asked Ron, taking the note from Harry.
“Snuffles,” said Harry quietly.
“‘Same time, same place’? Does he mean the fire in the common room?”
“Obviously,” said Hermione, also reading the note. She looked uneasy. “I
just hope nobody else has read this . . .”
“But it was still sealed and everything,” said Harry, trying to convince
himself as much as her. “And nobody would understand what it meant if
they didn’t know where we’d spoken to him before, would they?”
“I don’t know,” said Hermione anxiously, hitching her bag back over her
shoulder as the bell rang again. “It wouldn’t be exactly difficult to reseal the
scroll by magic. . . . And if anyone’s watching the Floo Network . . . but I
don’t really see how we can warn him not to come without that being
intercepted too!”

They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons for Potions, all three
of them lost in thought, but as they reached the bottom of the stairs they
were recalled to themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy, who was
standing just outside Snape’s classroom door, waving around an officiallooking piece of parchment and talking much louder than was necessary so
that they could hear every word.
“Yeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team permission to
continue playing straightaway, I went to ask her first thing this morning.
Well, it was pretty much automatic, I mean, she knows my father really
well, he’s always popping in and out of the Ministry. . . . It’ll be interesting
to see whether Gryffindor are allowed to keep playing, won’t it?”
“Don’t rise,” Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry and Ron, who
were both watching Malfoy, faces set and fists clenched. “It’s what he
wants . . .”

“I mean,” said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, his gray eyes
glittering malevolently in Harry and Ron’s direction, “if it’s a question of
influence with the Ministry, I don’t think they’ve got much chance.  .  .  .
From what my father says, they’ve been looking for an excuse to sack
Arthur Weasley for years. . . . And as for Potter . . . My father says it’s a
matter of time before the Ministry has him carted off to St. Mungo’s. . . .
apparently they’ve got a special ward for people whose brains have been
addled by magic . . .”
Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging open and his eyes
rolling. Crabbe and Goyle gave their usual grunts of laughter, Pansy
Parkinson shrieked with glee.
Something collided hard with Harry’s shoulder, knocking him sideways.
A split second later he realized that Neville had just charged past him,
heading straight for Malfoy.

“Neville, no!”
Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Neville’s robes; Neville
struggled frantically, his fists flailing, trying desperately to get at Malfoy
who looked, for a moment, extremely shocked.
“Help me!” Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an arm around Neville’s
neck and dragging him backward, away from the Slytherins. Crabbe and
Goyle were now flexing their arms, closing in front of Malfoy, ready for the
fight. Ron hurried forward and seized Neville’s arms; together, he and
Harry succeeded in dragging Neville back into the Gryffindor line.
Neville’s face was scarlet; the pressure Harry was exerting on his throat
rendered him quite incomprehensible, but odd words spluttered from his
mouth.

“Not . . . funny . . . don’t . . . Mungo’s . . . show . . . him . . .”
The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His black eyes swept
up the Gryffindor line to the point where Harry and Ron were wrestling
with Neville.
“Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom?” Snape said in his cold,
sneering voice. “Ten points from Gryffindor. Release Longbottom, Potter,
or it will be detention. Inside, all of you.”
Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring at him.
“I had to stop you,” Harry gasped, picking up his bag. “Crabbe and
Goyle would’ve torn you apart.”
Neville said nothing, he merely snatched up his own bag and stalked off
into the dungeon.
“What in the name of Merlin,” said Ron slowly, as they followed Neville,
“was that about?”

Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the subject of people who
were in St. Mungo’s because of magical damage to their brains was highly
distressing to Neville, but he had sworn to Dumbledore that he would not
tell anyone Neville’s secret. Even Neville did not know that Harry knew.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their usual seats at the back of the class
and pulled out parchment, quills, and their copies of One Thousand Magical
Herbs and Fungi. The class around them was whispering about what
Neville had just done, but when Snape closed the dungeon door with an
echoing bang everybody fell silent immediately.
“You will notice,” said Snape in his low, sneering voice, “that we have a
guest with us today.”

He gestured toward the dim corner of the dungeon, and Harry saw
Professor Umbridge sitting there, clipboard on her knee. He glanced
sideways at Ron and Hermione, his eyebrows raised. Snape and Umbridge,
the two teachers he hated most . . . it was hard to decide which he wanted to
triumph over the other.

“We are continuing with our Strengthening Solutions today, you will find
your mixtures as you left them last lesson, if correctly made they should
have matured well over the weekend — instructions” — he waved his wand
again — “on the board. Carry on.”
Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the lesson making notes
in her corner. Harry was very interested in hearing her question Snape, so
interested, that he was becoming careless with his potion again.
“Salamander blood, Harry!” Hermione moaned, grabbing his wrist to
prevent him adding the wrong ingredient for the third time. “Not
pomegranate juice!”

“Right,” said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle and continuing to
watch the corner. Umbridge had just gotten to her feet. “Ha,” he said softly,
as she strode between two lines of desks toward Snape, who was bending
over Dean Thomas’s cauldron.
“Well, the class seems fairly advanced for their level,” she said briskly to
Snape’s back. “Though I would question whether it is advisable to teach
them a potion like the Strengthening Solution. I think the Ministry would
prefer it if that was removed from the syllabus.”
Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at her.
“Now . . . how long have you been teaching at Hogwarts?” she asked, her
quill poised over her clipboard.

“Fourteen years,” Snape replied. His expression was unfathomable. His
eyes on Snape, Harry added a few drops to his potion; it hissed menacingly
and turned from turquoise to orange.
“You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post, I believe?”
Professor Umbridge asked Snape.
“Yes,” said Snape quietly.
“But you were unsuccessful?”
Snape’s lip curled.
“Obviously.”

Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard.
“And you have applied regularly for the Defense Against the Dark Arts
post since you first joined the school, I believe?”
“Yes,” said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips. He looked very angry.
“Do you have any idea why Dumbledore has consistently refused to
appoint you?” asked Umbridge.
“I suggest you ask him,” said Snape jerkily.
“Oh I shall,” said Professor Umbridge with a sweet smile.
“I suppose this is relevant?” Snape asked, his black eyes narrowed.
“Oh yes,” said Professor Umbridge. “Yes, the Ministry wants a thorough
understanding of teachers’ — er — backgrounds . . .”

She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson and began questioning
her about the lessons. Snape looked around at Harry and their eyes met for a
second. Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion, which was now
congealing foully and giving off a strong smell of burned rubber.
“No marks again, then, Potter,” said Snape maliciously, emptying Harry’s
cauldron with a wave of his wand. “You will write me an essay on the
correct composition of this potion, indicating how and why you went
wrong, to be handed in next lesson, do you understand?”
“Yes,” said Harry furiously. Snape had already given them homework,
and he had Quidditch practice this evening; this would mean another couple
of sleepless nights. It did not seem possible that he had awoken that
morning feeling very happy. All he felt now was a fervent desire for this
day to end as soon as possible.

“Maybe I’ll skive off Divination,” he said glumly as they stood again in
the courtyard after lunch, the wind whipping at the hems of robes and brims
of hats. “I’ll pretend to be ill and do Snape’s essay instead, then I won’t
have to stay up half the night . . .”
“You can’t skive off Divination,” said Hermione severely.
“Hark who’s talking, you walked out of Divination, you hate
Trelawney!” said Ron indignantly.

“I don’t hate her,” said Hermione loftily. “I just think she’s an absolutely
appalling teacher and a real old fraud.  .  .  . But Harry’s already missed
History of Magic and I don’t think he ought to miss anything else today!”
There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an hour later Harry
took his seat in the hot, over-perfumed atmosphere of the Divination
classroom feeling angry at everybody. Professor Trelawney was handing
out copies of The Dream Oracle yet again; he would surely be much better
employed doing Snape’s punishment essay than sitting here trying to find
meaning in a lot of made-up dreams.

It seemed, however, that he was not the only person in Divination who
was in a temper. Professor Trelawney slammed a copy of the Oracle down
on the table between Harry and Ron and swept away, her lips pursed; she
threw the next copy of the Oracle at Seamus and Dean, narrowly avoiding
Seamus’s head, and thrust the final one into Neville’s chest with such force
that he slipped off his pouf.
“Well, carry on!” said Professor Trelawney loudly, her voice high pitched
and somewhat hysterical. “You know what to do! Or am I such a
substandard teacher that you have never learned how to open a book?”
The class stared perplexedly at her and then at each other. Harry,
however, thought he knew what was the matter. As Professor Trelawney
flounced back to the high-backed teacher’s chair, her magnified eyes full of
angry tears, he leaned his head closer to Ron’s and muttered, “I think she’s
got the results of her inspection back.”

“Professor?” said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice (she and Lavender had
always rather admired Professor Trelawney). “Professor, is there anything
— er — wrong?”
“Wrong!” cried Professor Trelawney in a voice throbbing with emotion.
“Certainly not! I have been insulted, certainly. . . . Insinuations have been
made against me. . . . Unfounded accusations levelled . . . but no, there is
nothing wrong, certainly not . . .”
She took a great shuddering breath and looked away from Parvati, angry
tears spilling from under her glasses.
“I say nothing,” she choked, “of sixteen years’ devoted service. . . . It has
passed, apparently, unnoticed.  .  .  . But I shall not be insulted, no, I shall
not!”

“But Professor, who’s insulting you?” asked Parvati timidly.
“The establishment!” said Professor Trelawney in a deep, dramatic,
wavering voice. “Yes, those with eyes too clouded by the Mundane to See
as I See, to Know as I Know . . . Of course, we Seers have always been
feared, always persecuted. . . . It is — alas — our fate . . .”
She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl, and then
pulled a small, embroidered handkerchief from her sleeve, into which she
blew her nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blowing a raspberry. Ron
sniggered. Lavender shot him a disgusted look.
“Professor,” said Parvati, “do you mean  .  .  . is it something Professor
Umbridge . . . ?”

“Do not speak to me about that woman!” cried Professor Trelawney,
leaping to her feet, her beads rattling and her spectacles flashing. “Kindly
continue with your work!”
And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among them, tears still
leaking from behind her glasses, muttering what sounded like threats under
her breath.
“ . . . may well choose to leave . . . the indignity of it . . . on probation . . .
we shall see . . . how she dares . . .”
“You and Umbridge have got something in common,” Harry told
Hermione quietly when they met again in Defense Against the Dark Arts.
“She obviously reckons Trelawney’s an old fraud too. . . . Looks like she’s
put her on probation.”
Umbridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her black velvet bow
and an expression of great smugness.

“Good afternoon, class.”
“Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge,” they chanted drearily.
“Wands away, please . . .”
But there was no answering flurry of movement this time; nobody had
bothered to take out their wands.
“Please turn to page thirty-four of Defensive Magical Theory and read the
third chapter, entitled ‘The Case for Non-Offensive Responses to Magical
Attack.’ There will be —”
“— no need to talk,” Harry, Ron, and Hermione said together under their
breaths.

“No Quidditch practice,” said Angelina in hollow tones when Harry, Ron,
and Hermione entered the common room that night after dinner.
“But I kept my temper!” said Harry, horrified. “I didn’t say anything to
her, Angelina, I swear, I —”
“I know, I know,” said Angelina miserably. “She just said she needed a
bit of time to consider.”
“Consider what?” said Ron angrily. “She’s given the Slytherins
permission, why not us?”
But Harry could imagine how much Umbridge was enjoying holding the
threat of no Gryffindor Quidditch team over their heads and could easily
understand why she would not want to relinquish that weapon over them
too soon.
“Well,” said Hermione, “look on the bright side — at least now you’ll
have time to do Snape’s essay!”

“That’s a bright side, is it?” snapped Harry, while Ron stared
incredulously at Hermione. “No Quidditch practice and extra Potions?”
Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions essay reluctantly
from his bag, and set to work.
It was very hard to concentrate; even though he knew that Sirius was not
due in the fire until much later he could not help glancing into the flames
every few minutes just in case. There was also an incredible amount of
noise in the room: Fred and George appeared finally to have perfected one
type of Skiving Snackbox, which they were taking turns to demonstrate to a
cheering and whooping crowd.

First, Fred would take a bite out of the orange end of a chew, at which he
would vomit spectacularly into a bucket they had placed in front of them.
Then he would force down the purple end of the chew, at which the
vomiting would immediately cease. Lee Jordan, who was assisting the
demonstration, was lazily vanishing the vomit at regular intervals with the
same Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harry’s potions.
What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering, and Fred and George
taking advance orders from the crowd, Harry was finding it exceptionally
difficult to focus on the correct method for Strengthening Solutions.
Hermione was not helping matters; the cheers and sound of vomit hitting
the bottom of Fred and George’s bucket were punctuated by loud and
disapproving sniffs that Harry found, if anything, more distracting.
“Just go and stop them, then!” he said irritably, after crossing out the
wrong weight of powdered griffin claw for the fourth time.

“I can’t, they’re not technically doing anything wrong,” said Hermione
through gritted teeth. “They’re quite within their rights to eat the foul things
themselves, and I can’t find a rule that says the other idiots aren’t entitled to
buy them, not unless they’re proven to be dangerous in some way, and it
doesn’t look as though they are . . .”

She, Harry, and Ron watched George projectile-vomit into the bucket,
gulp down the rest of the chew, and straighten up, beaming with his arms
wide to protracted applause.
“You know, I don’t get why Fred and George only got three O.W.L.s
each,” said Harry, watching as Fred, George, and Lee collected gold from
the eager crowd. “They really know their stuff . . .”
“Oh, they only know flashy stuff that’s no real use to anyone,” said
Hermione disparagingly.
“No real use?” said Ron in a strained voice. “Hermione, they’ve got
about twenty-six Galleons already . . .”

It was a long while before the crowd around the Weasleys dispersed, and
then Fred, Lee, and George sat up counting their takings even longer, so
that it was well past midnight when Harry, Ron, and Hermione finally had
the common room to themselves again. At long last, Fred closed the
doorway to the boys’ dormitories behind him, rattling his box of Galleons
ostentatiously so that Hermione scowled. Harry, who was making very little
progress with his Potions essay, decided to give it up for the night. As he
put his books away, Ron, who was dozing lightly in an armchair, gave a
muffled grunt, awoke, looked blearily into the fire and said, “Sirius!”
Harry whipped around; Sirius’s untidy dark head was sitting in the fire
again.

“Hi,” he said, grinning.
“Hi,” chorused Harry, Ron, and Hermione, all three kneeling down upon
the hearthrug. Crookshanks purred loudly and approached the fire, trying,
despite the heat, to put his face close to Sirius’s.
“How’re things?” said Sirius.
“Not that good,” said Harry, as Hermione pulled Crookshanks back to
stop him singeing his whiskers. “The Ministry’s forced through another
decree, which means we’re not allowed to have Quidditch teams —”
“— or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups?” said Sirius.
There was a short pause.

“How did you know about that?” Harry demanded.
“You want to choose your meeting places more carefully,” said Sirius,
grinning still more broadly. “The Hog’s Head, I ask you . . .”
“Well, it was better than the Three Broomsticks!” said Hermione
defensively. “That’s always packed with people —”
“— which means you’d have been harder to overhear,” said Sirius.
“You’ve got a lot to learn, Hermione.”
“Who overheard us?” Harry demanded.
“Mundungus, of course,” said Sirius, and when they all looked puzzled
he laughed. “He was the witch under the veil.”
“That was Mundungus?” Harry said, stunned. “What was he doing in the
Hog’s Head?”

“What do you think he was doing?” said Sirius impatiently. “Keeping an
eye on you, of course.”
“I’m still being followed?” asked Harry angrily.
“Yeah, you are,” said Sirius, “and just as well, isn’t it, if the first thing
you’re going to do on your weekend off is organize an illegal defense
group.”
But he looked neither angry nor worried; on the contrary, he was looking
at Harry with distinct pride.
“Why was Dung hiding from us?” asked Ron, sounding disappointed.
“We’d’ve liked to’ve seen him.”
“He was banned from the Hog’s Head twenty years ago,” said Sirius,
“and that barman’s got a long memory. We lost Moody’s spare Invisibility
Cloak when Sturgis was arrested, so Dung’s been dressing as a witch a lot
lately. . . . Anyway . . . First of all, Ron — I’ve sworn to pass on a message
from your mother.”

“Oh yeah?” said Ron, sounding apprehensive.
“She says on no account whatsoever are you to take part in an illegal
secret Defense Against the Dark Arts group. She says you’ll be expelled for
sure and your future will be ruined. She says there will be plenty of time to
learn how to defend yourself later and that you are too young to be
worrying about that right now. She also” — Sirius’s eyes turned to the other
two — “advises Harry and Hermione not to proceed with the group, though
she accepts that she has no authority over either of them and simply begs
them to remember that she has their best interests at heart. She would have
written all this to you, but if the owl had been intercepted you’d all have
been in real trouble, and she can’t say it for herself because she’s on duty
tonight.”
“On duty doing what?” said Ron quickly.

“Never you mind, just stuff for the Order,” said Sirius. “So it’s fallen to
me to be the messenger and make sure you tell her I passed it all on,
because I don’t think she trusts me to.”
There was another pause in which Crookshanks, mewing, attempted to
paw Sirius’s head, and Ron fiddled with a hole in the hearthrug.
“So you want me to say I’m not going to take part in the defense group?”
he muttered finally.
“Me? Certainly not!” said Sirius, looking surprised. “I think it’s an
excellent idea!”

“You do?” said Harry, his heart lifting.
“Of course I do!” said Sirius. “D’you think your father and I would’ve
lain down and taken orders from an old hag like Umbridge?”
“But — last term all you did was tell me to be careful and not take risks
—”
“Last year all the evidence was that someone inside Hogwarts was trying
to kill you, Harry!” said Sirius impatiently. “This year we know that there’s
someone outside Hogwarts who’d like to kill us all, so I think learning to
defend yourselves properly is a very good idea!”
“And if we do get expelled?” Hermione asked, a quizzical look on her
face.

“Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!” said Harry, staring at her.
“I know it was.  .  .  . I just wondered what Sirius thought,” she said,
shrugging.
“Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves than sitting safely in
school without a clue,” said Sirius.
“Hear, hear,” said Harry and Ron enthusiastically.
“So,” said Sirius, “how are you organizing this group? Where are you
meeting?”
“Well, that’s a bit of a problem now,” said Harry. “Dunno where we’re
going to be able to go . . .”
“How about the Shrieking Shack?” suggested Sirius.

“Hey, that’s an idea!” said Ron excitedly, but Hermione made a skeptical
noise and all three of them looked at her, Sirius’s head turning in the flames.
“Well, Sirius, it’s just that there were only four of you meeting in the
Shrieking Shack when you were at school,” said Hermione, “and all of you
could transform into animals and I suppose you could all have squeezed
under a single Invisibility Cloak if you’d wanted to. But there are twentyeight of us and none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldn’t need so much an
Invisibility Cloak as an Invisibility Marquee —”
“Fair point,” said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. “Well, I’m sure
you’ll come up with somewhere. . . . There used to be a pretty roomy secret
passageway behind that big mirror on the fourth floor, you might have
enough space to practice jinxes in there —”
“Fred and George told me it’s blocked,” said Harry, shaking his head.
“Caved in or something.”
“Oh . . .” said Sirius, frowning. “Well, I’ll have a think and get back to
—”

He broke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. He turned sideways,
apparently looking into the solid brick wall of the fireplace.
“Sirius?” said Harry anxiously.
But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a moment, then
turned to look at Ron and Hermione.
“Why did he — ?”
Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, still staring at the
fire.
A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as though to catch
hold of something; a stubby, short-fingered hand covered in ugly oldfashioned rings. . . .
The three of them ran for it; at the door of the boys’ dormitory Harry
looked back. Umbridge’s hand was still making snatching movements
amongst the flames, as though she knew exactly where Sirius’s hair had
been moments before and was determined to seize it.


CHAPTER  EIGHTEEN

DUMBLEDORE’S ARMY

mbridge has been reading your mail, Harry. There’s no other
explanation.”
“You think Umbridge attacked Hedwig?” he said, outraged.
“I’m almost certain of it,” said Hermione grimly. “Watch your frog, it’s
escaping.”
Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been hopping hopefully
toward the other side of the table — “Accio!” — and it zoomed gloomily
back into his hand.
Charms was always one of the best lessons in which to enjoy a private
chat: There was generally so much movement and activity that the danger
of being overheard was very slight. Today, with the room full of croaking
bullfrogs and cawing ravens, and with a heavy downpour of rain clattering
and pounding against the classroom windows, Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s
whispered discussion about how Umbridge had nearly caught Sirius went
quite unnoticed.

“I’ve been suspecting this ever since Filch accused you of ordering
Dungbombs, because it seemed such a stupid lie,” Hermione whispered. “I
mean, once your letter had been read, it would have been quite clear you
weren’t ordering them, so you wouldn’t have been in trouble at all — it’s a
bit of a feeble joke, isn’t it? But then I thought, what if somebody just
wanted an excuse to read your mail? Well then, it would be a perfect way
for Umbridge to manage it — tip off Filch, let him do the dirty work and
confiscate the letter, then either find a way of stealing it from him or else
demand to see it — I don’t think Filch would object, when’s he ever stuck
up for a student’s rights? Harry, you’re squashing your frog.”
Harry looked down; he was indeed squeezing his bullfrog so tightly its
eyes were popping; he replaced it hastily upon the desk.
“It was a very, very close call last night,” said Hermione. “I just wonder
if Umbridge knows how close it was. Silencio!”

The bullfrog on which she was practicing her Silencing Charm was
struck dumb mid-croak and glared at her reproachfully.
“If she’d caught Snuffles . . .”
Harry finished the sentence for her.
“He’d probably be back in Azkaban this morning.” He waved his wand
without really concentrating; his bullfrog swelled like a green balloon and
emitted a high-pitched whistle.
“Silencio!” said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand at Harry’s frog,
which deflated silently before them. “Well, he mustn’t do it again, that’s all.
I just don’t know how we’re going to let him know. We can’t send him an
owl.”

“I don’t reckon he’ll risk it again,” said Ron. “He’s not stupid, he knows
she nearly got him. Silencio!”
The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a derisive caw.
“Silencio! SILENCIO!”
The raven cawed more loudly.
“It’s the way you’re moving your wand,” said Hermione, watching Ron
critically. “You don’t want to wave it, it’s more a sharp jab.”
“Ravens are harder than frogs,” said Ron testily.
“Fine, let’s swap,” said Hermione, seizing Ron’s raven and replacing it
with her own fat bullfrog. “Silencio!” The raven continued to open and
close its sharp beak, but no sound came out.
“Very good, Miss Granger!” said Professor Flitwick’s squeaky little voice
and Harry, Ron, and Hermione all jumped. “Now, let me see you try, Mr.
Weasley!”

“Wha — ? Oh — oh, right,” said Ron, very flustered. “Er — Silencio!”
He jabbed at the bullfrog so hard that he poked it in the eye; the frog
gave a deafening croak and leapt off the desk.
It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and Ron were given
additional practice of the Silencing Charm for homework.
They were allowed to remain inside over break due to the downpour
outside. They found seats in a noisy and overcrowded classroom on the first
floor in which Peeves was floating dreamily up near the chandelier,
occasionally blowing an ink pellet at the top of somebody’s head. They had
barely sat down when Angelina came struggling toward them through the
groups of gossiping students.
“I’ve got permission!” she said. “To re-form the Quidditch team!”
“Excellent!” said Ron and Harry together.
“Yeah,” said Angelina, beaming. “I went to McGonagall and I think she
might have appealed to Dumbledore — anyway, Umbridge had to give in.
Ha! So I want you down at the pitch at seven o’clock tonight, all right,
because we’ve got to make up time, you realize we’re only three weeks
away from our first match?”

She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an ink pellet from
Peeves, which hit a nearby first year instead, and vanished from sight.
Ron’s smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the window, which was
now opaque with hammering rain.
“Hope this clears up . . . What’s up with you, Hermione?”
She too was gazing at the window, but not as though she really saw it.
Her eyes were unfocused and there was a frown on her face.
“Just thinking . . .” she said, still frowning at the rain-washed window.
“About Siri . . . Snuffles?” said Harry.
“No . . . not exactly . . .” said Hermione slowly. “More . . . wondering . . .
I suppose we’re doing the right thing . . . I think . . . aren’t we?”
Harry and Ron looked at each other.
“Well, that clears that up,” said Ron. “It would’ve been really annoying if
you hadn’t explained yourself properly.”
Hermione looked at him as though she had only just realized he was
there.

“I was just wondering,” she said, her voice stronger now, “whether we’re
doing the right thing, starting this Defense Against the Dark Arts group.”
“What!” said Harry and Ron together.
“Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!” said Ron indignantly.
“I know,” said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. “But after talking
to Snuffles . . .”
“But he’s all for it!” said Harry.
“Yes,” said Hermione, staring at the window again. “Yes, that’s what
made me think maybe it wasn’t a good idea after all . . .”
Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter at the ready;
automatically all three of them lifted their bags to cover their heads until he
had passed.

“Let’s get this straight,” said Harry angrily, as they put their bags back on
the floor, “Sirius agrees with us, so you don’t think we should do it
anymore?”
Hermione looked tense and rather miserable. Now staring at her own
hands she said, “Do you honestly trust his judgment?”
“Yes, I do!” said Harry at once. “He’s always given us great advice!”
An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell squarely in the ear.
Hermione watched Katie leap to her feet and start throwing things at
Peeves; it was a few moments before Hermione spoke again and it sounded
as though she was choosing her words very carefully.
“You don’t think he has become . . . sort of . . . reckless . . . since he’s
been cooped up in Grimmauld Place? You don’t think he’s . . . kind of . . .
living through us?”

“What d’you mean, ‘living through us’?” Harry retorted.
“I mean . . . well, I think he’d love to be forming secret defense societies
right under the nose of someone from the Ministry. . . . I think he’s really
frustrated at how little he can do where he is . . . so I think he’s keen to kind
of . . . egg us on.”

Ron looked utterly perplexed.
“Sirius is right,” he said, “you do sound just like my mother.”
Hermione bit her lip and did not answer. The bell rang just as Peeves
swooped down upon Katie and emptied an entire ink bottle over her head.
The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so that at seven o’clock
that evening, when Harry and Ron went down to the Quidditch pitch for
practice, they were soaked through within minutes, their feet slipping and
sliding on the sodden grass. The sky was a deep, thundery gray and it was a
relief to gain the warmth and light of the changing rooms, even if they knew
the respite was only temporary. They found Fred and George debating
whether to use one of their own Skiving Snackboxes to get out of flying.
“— but I bet she’d know what we’d done,” Fred said out of the corner of
his mouth. “If only I hadn’t offered to sell her some Puking Pastilles
yesterday —”

“We could try the Fever Fudge,” George muttered, “no one’s seen that
yet —”
“Does it work?” inquired Ron hopefully, as the hammering of rain on the
roof intensified and wind howled around the building.
“Well, yeah,” said Fred, “your temperature’ll go right up —”
“— but you get these massive pus-filled boils too,” said George, “and we
haven’t worked out how to get rid of them yet.”
“I can’t see any boils,” said Ron, staring at the twins.
“No, well, you wouldn’t,” said Fred darkly, “they’re not in a place we
generally display to the public —”
“— but they make sitting on a broom a right pain in the —”
“All right, everyone, listen up,” said Angelina loudly, emerging from the
Captain’s office. “I know it’s not ideal weather, but there’s a good chance
we’ll be playing Slytherin in conditions like this so it’s a good idea to work
out how we’re going to cope with them. Harry, didn’t you do something to
your glasses to stop the rain fogging them up when we played Hufflepuff in
that storm?”

“Hermione did it,” said Harry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his glasses
and said, “Impervius!”
“I think we all ought to try that,” said Angelina. “If we could just keep
the rain off our faces it would really help visibility — all together, come on
— Impervius! Okay. Let’s go.”
They all stowed their wands back in the inside pockets of their robes,
shouldered their brooms, and followed Angelina out of the changing rooms.
They squelched through the deepening mud to the middle of the pitch;
visibility was still very poor even with the Impervius Charm; light was
fading fast and curtains of rain were sweeping the grounds.
“All right, on my whistle,” shouted Angelina.

Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all directions, and
shot upward, the wind pulling him slightly off course. He had no idea how
he was going to see the Snitch in this weather; he was having enough
difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which they were practicing; a minute
into the practice it almost unseated him and he had to use the Sloth Grip
Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately Angelina did not see this; in fact, she did not
appear to be able to see anything; none of them had a clue what the others
were doing. The wind was picking up; even at a distance Harry could hear
the swishing, pounding sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the
lake.

Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before conceding defeat. She
led her sodden and disgruntled team back into the changing rooms, insisting
that the practice had not been a waste of time, though without any real
conviction in her voice. Fred and George were looking particularly
annoyed; both were bandy-legged and winced with every movement. Harry
could hear them complaining in low voices as he toweled his hair dry.
“I think a few of mine have ruptured,” said Fred in a hollow voice.
“Mine haven’t,” said George, wincing. “They’re throbbing like mad . . .
feel bigger if anything . . .”
“OUCH!” said Harry.

He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain. The
scar on his forehead had seared again, more painfully than in months.
“What’s up?” said several voices.
Harry emerged from behind his towel; the changing room was blurred
because he was not wearing his glasses; but he could still tell that
everyone’s face was turned toward him.
“Nothing,” he muttered, “I — poked myself in the eye, that’s all . . .”
But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of them hung back as the
rest of the team filed back outside, muffled in their cloaks, their hats pulled
low over their ears.
“What happened?” said Ron, the moment that Alicia had disappeared
through the door. “Was it your scar?”
Harry nodded.

“But . . .” Looking scared, Ron strode across to the window and stared
out into the rain, “He — he can’t be near us now, can he?”
“No,” Harry muttered, sinking onto a bench and rubbing his forehead.
“He’s probably miles away. It hurt because . . . he’s . . . angry.”
Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the words as though a
stranger had spoken them — yet he knew at once that they were true. He
did not know how he knew it, but he did; Voldemort, wherever he was,
whatever he was doing, was in a towering temper.
“Did you see him?” said Ron, looking horrified. “Did you  .  .  . get a
vision, or something?”

Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his mind and his memory
to relax in the aftermath of the pain. . . .
A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices . . .
“He wants something done, and it’s not happening fast enough,” he said.
Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out of his mouth, and
yet quite certain that they were true.
“But . . . how do you know?” said Ron.
Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his hands, pressing down
upon them with his palms. Little stars erupted in them. He felt Ron sit down
on the bench beside him and knew Ron was staring at him.
“Is this what it was about last time?” said Ron in a hushed voice. “When
your scar hurt in Umbridge’s office? You-Know-Who was angry?”
Harry shook his head.
“What is it, then?”

Harry was thinking himself back. He had been looking into Umbridge’s
face.  .  .  . His scar had hurt  .  .  . and he had had that odd feeling in his
stomach  .  .  . a strange, leaping feeling  .  .  . a happy feeling.  .  .  . But, of
course, he had not recognized it for what it was, as he had been feeling so
miserable himself. . . .
“Last time, it was because he was pleased,” he said. “Really pleased. He
thought . . . something good was going to happen. And the night before we
came back to Hogwarts . . .” He thought back to the moment when his scar
had hurt so badly in his and Ron’s bedroom in Grimmauld Place. “He was
furious . . .”

He looked around at Ron, who was gaping at him.
“You could take over from Trelawney, mate,” he said in an awed voice.
“I’m not making prophecies,” said Harry.
“No, you know what you’re doing?” Ron said, sounding both scared and
impressed. “Harry, you’re reading You-Know-Who’s mind. . . .”
“No,” said Harry, shaking his head. “It’s more like  .  .  . his mood, I
suppose. I’m just getting flashes of what mood he’s in. . . . Dumbledore said
something like this was happening last year.  .  .  . He said that when
Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling hatred, I could tell. Well,
now I’m feeling it when he’s pleased too . . .”
There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the building.
“You’ve got to tell someone,” said Ron.

“I told Sirius last time.”
“Well, tell him about this time!”
“Can’t, can I?” said Harry grimly. “Umbridge is watching the owls and
the fires, remember?”
“Well then, Dumbledore —”
“I’ve just told you, he already knows,” said Harry shortly, getting to his
feet, taking his cloak off his peg, and swinging it around himself. “There’s
no point telling him again.”
Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching Harry thoughtfully.
“Dumbledore’d want to know,” he said.

Harry shrugged.
“C’mon . . . we’ve still got Silencing Charms to practice . . .”
They hurried back through the dark grounds, sliding and stumbling up
the muddy lawns, not talking. Harry was thinking hard. What was it that
Voldemort wanted done that was not happening quickly enough?
“He’s got other plans . . . plans he can put into operation very quietly
indeed . . . stuff he can only get by stealth . . . like a weapon. Something he
didn’t have last time.”

He had not thought about those words in weeks; he had been too
absorbed in what was going on at Hogwarts, too busy dwelling on the
ongoing battles with Umbridge, the injustice of all the Ministry
interference. . . . But now they came back to him and made him wonder. . . .
Voldemort’s anger would make sense if he was no nearer laying hands on
the weapon, whatever it was. . . . Had the Order thwarted him, stopped him
from seizing it? Where was it kept? Who had it now?
“Mimbulus mimbletonia,” said Ron’s voice and Harry came back to his
senses just in time to clamber through the portrait hole into the common
room.

It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, leaving Crookshanks
curled in a nearby chair and an assortment of knobbly, knitted elf hats lying
on a table by the fire. Harry was rather grateful that she was not around
because he did not much want to discuss his scar hurting and have her urge
him to go to Dumbledore too. Ron kept throwing him anxious glances, but
Harry pulled out his Potions book and set to work to finish his essay, though
he was only pretending to concentrate and, by the time that Ron said he was
going to bed too, had written hardly anything.
Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and rereading a
passage about the uses of scurvy-grass, lovage, and sneezewort and not
taking in a word of it. . . .

These plantes are moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and
are therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where
the wizard is desirous of producing hot-headedness and recklessness. . . .
.  .  . Hermione said Sirius was becoming reckless cooped up in
Grimmauld Place. . . .
. . . moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and are therefore
much used . . .

. . . the Daily Prophet would think his brain was inflamed if they found
out that he knew what Voldemort was feeling . . .
 . . . therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts . . .
. . . confusing was the word, all right; why did he know what Voldemort
was feeling? What was this weird connection between them, which
Dumbledore had never been able to explain satisfactorily?
 . . . where the wizard is desirous . . .
 . . . how he would like to sleep . . .

 . . . of producing hot-headedness . . .
. . . It was warm and comfortable in his armchair before the fire, with the
rain still beating heavily on the windowpanes and Crookshanks purring and
the crackling of the flames. . . .
The book slipped from Harry’s slack grip and landed with a dull thud on
the hearthrug. His head fell sideways. . . .
He was walking once more along a windowless corridor, his footsteps
echoing in the silence. As the door at the end of the passage loomed larger
his heart beat fast with excitement. . . . If he could only open it . . . enter
beyond . . .

He stretched out his hand. . . . His fingertips were inches from it. . . .
“Harry Potter, sir!”
He awoke with a start. The candles had all been extinguished in the
common room, but there was something moving close by.
“Whozair?” said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. The fire was almost
extinguished, the room very dark.
“Dobby has your owl, sir!” said a squeaky voice.
“Dobby?” said Harry thickly, peering through the gloom toward the
source of the voice.

Dobby the house-elf was standing beside the table on which Hermione
had left her half a dozen knitted hats. His large, pointed ears were now
sticking out from beneath what looked like all the hats that Hermione had
ever knitted; he was wearing one on top of the other, so that his head
seemed elongated by two or three feet, and on the very topmost bobble sat
Hedwig, hooting serenely and obviously cured.
“Dobby volunteered to return Harry Potter’s owl!” said the elf squeakily,
with a look of positive adoration on his face. “Professor Grubbly-Plank says
she is all well now, sir!”

He sank into a deep bow so that his pencil-like nose brushed the
threadbare surface of the hearthrug and Hedwig gave an indignant hoot and
fluttered onto the arm of Harry’s chair.
“Thanks, Dobby!” said Harry, stroking Hedwig’s head and blinking hard,
trying to rid himself of the image of the door in his dream. . . . It had been
very vivid.  .  .  . Looking back at Dobby, he noticed that the elf was also
wearing several scarves and innumerable socks, so that his feet looked far
too big for his body.
“Er  .  .  . have you been taking all the clothes Hermione’s been leaving
out?”

“Oh no, sir,” said Dobby happily, “Dobby has been taking some for
Winky too, sir.”
“Yeah, how is Winky?” asked Harry.
Dobby’s ears drooped slightly.
“Winky is still drinking lots, sir,” he said sadly, his enormous round
green eyes, large as tennis balls, downcast. “She still does not care for
clothes, Harry Potter. Nor do the other house-elves. None of them will clean
Gryffindor Tower anymore, not with the hats and socks hidden everywhere,
they finds them insulting, sir. Dobby does it all himself, sir, but Dobby does
not mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he
has got his wish!” Dobby sank into a deep bow again. “But Harry Potter
does not seem happy,” Dobby went on, straightening up again and looking
timidly at Harry. “Dobby heard him muttering in his sleep. Was Harry
Potter having bad dreams?”

“Not really bad,” said Harry, yawning and rubbing his eyes. “I’ve had
worse.”
The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orblike eyes. Then he said very
seriously, his ears drooping, “Dobby wishes he could help Harry Potter, for
Harry Potter set Dobby free and Dobby is much, much happier now . . .”
Harry smiled.
“You can’t help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer . . .”
He bent and picked up his Potions book. He’d have to try and finish the
essay tomorrow. He closed the book and as he did so the firelight
illuminated the thin white scars on the back of his hand — the result of his
detention with Umbridge.

“Wait a moment — there is something you can do for me, Dobby,” said
Harry slowly.
The elf looked around, beaming.
“Name it, Harry Potter, sir!”
“I need to find a place where twenty-eight people can practice Defense
Against the Dark Arts without being discovered by any of the teachers.
Especially,” Harry clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars shone
pearly white, “Professor Umbridge.”

He expected the elf’s smile to vanish, his ears to droop; he expected him
to say that this was impossible, or else that he would try, but his hopes were
not high. . . . What he had not expected was for Dobby to give a little skip,
his ears waggling happily, and clap his hands together.
“Dobby knows the perfect place, sir!” he said happily. “Dobby heard tell
of it from the other house-elves when he came to Hogwarts, sir. It is known
by us as the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of Requirement!”
“Why?” said Harry curiously.

“Because it is a room that a person can only enter,” said Dobby seriously,
“when they have real need of it. Sometimes it is there, and sometimes it is
not, but when it appears, it is always equipped for the seeker’s needs.
Dobby has used it, sir,” said the elf, dropping his voice and looking guilty,
“when Winky has been very drunk. He has hidden her in the Room of
Requirement and he has found antidotes to butterbeer there, and a nice elfsized bed to settle her on while she sleeps it off, sir. . . . And Dobby knows
Mr. Filch has found extra cleaning materials there when he has run short,
sir, and —”

“— and if you really needed a bathroom,” said Harry, suddenly
remembering something Dumbledore had said at the Yule Ball the previous
Christmas, “would it fill itself with chamber pots?”
“Dobby expects so, sir,” said Dobby, nodding earnestly. “It is a most
amazing room, sir.”
“How many people know about it?” said Harry, sitting up straighter in his
chair.
“Very few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when they needs it, sir,
but often they never finds it again, for they do not know that it is always
there waiting to be called into service, sir.”
“It sounds brilliant,” said Harry, his heart racing. “It sounds perfect,
Dobby. When can you show me where it is?”

“Anytime, Harry Potter, sir,” said Dobby, looking delighted at Harry’s
enthusiasm. “We could go now, if you like!”
For a moment Harry was tempted to go now; he was halfway out of his
seat, intending to hurry upstairs for his Invisibility Cloak when, not for the
first time, a voice very much like Hermione’s whispered in his ear: reckless.
It was, after all, very late, and he was exhausted.

“Not tonight, Dobby,” said Harry reluctantly, sinking back into his chair.
“This is really important.  .  .  . I don’t want to blow it, it’ll need proper
planning.  .  .  . Listen, can you just tell me exactly where this Room of
Requirement is and how to get in there?”
Their robes billowed and swirled around them as they splashed across the
flooded vegetable patch to double Herbology, where they could hardly hear
what Professor Sprout was saying over the hammering of raindrops hard as
hailstones on the greenhouse roof. The afternoon’s Care of Magical
Creatures lesson was to be relocated from the storm-swept grounds to a free
classroom on the ground floor and, to their intense relief, Angelina sought
out her team at lunch to tell them that Quidditch practice was canceled.

“Good,” said Harry quietly, when she told him, “because we’ve found
somewhere to have our first Defense meeting. Tonight, eight o’clock,
seventh floor opposite that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy being clubbed
by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and Alicia?”
She looked slightly taken aback but promised to tell the others; Harry
returned hungrily to his sausages and mash. When he looked up to take a
drink of pumpkin juice, he found Hermione watching him.
“What?” he said thickly.

“Well . . . it’s just that Dobby’s plans aren’t always that safe. Don’t you
remember when he lost you all the bones in your arm?”
“This room isn’t just some mad idea of Dobby’s; Dumbledore knows
about it too, he mentioned it to me at the Yule Ball.”
Hermione’s expression cleared.
“Dumbledore told you about it?”
“Just in passing,” said Harry, shrugging.
“Oh well, that’s all right then,” said Hermione briskly and she raised no
more objections.

Together with Ron they had spent most of the day seeking out those
people who had signed their names to the list in the Hog’s Head and telling
them where to meet that evening. Somewhat to Harry’s disappointment, it
was Ginny who managed to find Cho Chang and her friend first; however,
by the end of dinner he was confident that the news had been passed to
every one of the twenty-five people who had turned up in the Hog’s Head.
At half-past seven Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the Gryffindor common
room, Harry clutching a certain piece of aged parchment in his hand. Fifth
years were allowed to be out in the corridors until nine o’clock, but all three
of them kept looking around nervously as they made their way up to the
seventh floor.

“Hold it,” said Harry warningly, unfolding the piece of parchment at the
top of the last staircase, tapping it with his wand, and muttering, “I
solemnly swear that I am up to no good.”
A map of Hogwarts appeared upon the blank surface of the parchment.
Tiny black moving dots, labeled with names, showed where various people
were.
“Filch is on the second floor,” said Harry, holding the map close to his
eyes and scanning it closely, “and Mrs. Norris is on the fourth.”
“And Umbridge?” said Hermione anxiously.

“In her office,” said Harry, pointing. “Okay, let’s go.”
They hurried along the corridor to the place Dobby had described to
Harry, a stretch of blank wall opposite an enormous tapestry depicting
Barnabas the Barmy’s foolish attempt to train trolls for the ballet.
“Okay,” said Harry quietly, while a moth-eaten troll paused in his
relentless clubbing of the would-be ballet teacher to watch. “Dobby said to
walk past this bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on what we need.”
They did so, turning sharply at the window just beyond the blank stretch
of wall, then at the man-size vase on its other side. Ron had screwed up his
eyes in concentration, Hermione was whispering something under her
breath, Harry’s fists were clenched as he stared ahead of him.
We need somewhere to learn to fight. . . . he thought. Just give us a place
to practice . . . somewhere they can’t find us . . .

“Harry,” said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled around after their third
walk past.
A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron was staring at it,
looking slightly wary. Harry reached out, seized the brass handle, pulled
open the door, and led the way into a spacious room lit with flickering
torches like those that illuminated the dungeons eight floors below.
The walls were lined with wooden bookcases, and instead of chairs there
were large silk cushions on the floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the
room carried a range of instruments such as Sneakoscopes, Secrecy
Sensors, and a large, cracked Foe-Glass that Harry was sure had hung, the
previous year, in the fake Moody’s office.

“These will be good when we’re practicing Stunning,” said Ron
enthusiastically, prodding one of the cushions with his foot.
“And just look at these books!” said Hermione excitedly, running a finger
along the spines of the large leather-bound tomes. “A Compendium of
Common Curses and Their Counter-Actions  .  .  . The Dark Arts
Outsmarted . . . Self-Defensive Spellwork . . . wow . . .” She looked around
at Harry, her face glowing, and he saw that the presence of hundreds of
books had finally convinced Hermione that what they were doing was right.
“Harry, this is wonderful, there’s everything we need here!”
And without further ado she slid Jinxes for the Jinxed from its shelf, sank
onto the nearest cushion, and began to read.

There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked around; Ginny,
Neville, Lavender, Parvati, and Dean had arrived.
“Whoa,” said Dean, staring around, impressed. “What is this place?”
Harry began to explain, but before he had finished more people had
arrived, and he had to start all over again. By the time eight o’clock arrived,
every cushion was occupied. Harry moved across to the door and turned the
key protruding from the lock; it clicked in a satisfyingly loud way and
everybody fell silent, looking at him. Hermione carefully marked her page
of Jinxes for the Jinxed and set the book aside.

“Well,” said Harry, slightly nervously. “This is the place we’ve found for
practices, and you’ve — er — obviously found it okay —”
“It’s fantastic!” said Cho, and several people murmured their agreement.
“It’s bizarre,” said Fred, frowning around at it. “We once hid from Filch
in here, remember, George? But it was just a broom cupboard then . . .”
“Hey, Harry, what’s this stuff?” asked Dean from the rear of the room,
indicating the Sneakoscopes and the Foe-Glass.
“Dark Detectors,” said Harry, stepping between the cushions to reach
them. “Basically they all show when Dark wizards or enemies are around,
but you don’t want to rely on them too much, they can be fooled . . .”
He gazed for a moment into the cracked Foe-Glass; shadowy figures
were moving around inside it, though none was recognizable. He turned his
back on it.

“Well, I’ve been thinking about the sort of stuff we ought to do first and
— er —” He noticed a raised hand. “What, Hermione?”
“I think we ought to elect a leader,” said Hermione.
“Harry’s leader,” said Cho at once, looking at Hermione as though she
were mad, and Harry’s stomach did yet another back flip.
“Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly,” said Hermione,
unperturbed. “It makes it formal and it gives him authority. So — everyone
who thinks Harry ought to be our leader?”
Everybody put up their hands, even Zacharias Smith, though he did it
very halfheartedly.
“Er — right, thanks,” said Harry, who could feel his face burning. “And
— what, Hermione?”

“I also think we ought to have a name,” she said brightly, her hand still in
the air. “It would promote a feeling of team spirit and unity, don’t you
think?”
“Can we be the Anti-Umbridge League?” said Angelina hopefully.
“Or the Ministry of Magic Are Morons Group?” suggested Fred.
“I was thinking,” said Hermione, frowning at Fred, “more of a name that
didn’t tell everyone what we were up to, so we can refer to it safely outside
meetings.”
“The Defense Association?” said Cho. “The D.A. for short, so nobody
knows what we’re talking about?”
“Yeah, the D.A.’s good,” said Ginny. “Only let’s make it stand for
Dumbledore’s Army because that’s the Ministry’s worst fear, isn’t it?”
There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and laughter at this.
“All in favor of the D.A.?” said Hermione bossily, kneeling up on her
cushion to count. “That’s a majority — motion passed!”
She pinned the piece of paper with all of their names on it on the wall
and wrote DUMBLEDORE’S ARMY across the top in large letters.
“Right,” said Harry, when she had sat down again, “shall we get
practicing then? I was thinking, the first thing we should do is
Expelliarmus, you know, the Disarming Charm. I know it’s pretty basic but
I’ve found it really useful —”

“Oh please,” said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes and folding his arms.
“I don’t think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against You-KnowWho, do you?”
“I’ve used it against him,” said Harry quietly. “It saved my life last
June.”
Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the room was very quiet.
“But if you think it’s beneath you, you can leave,” Harry said.
Smith did not move. Nor did anybody else.
“Okay,” said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than usual with all those eyes
upon him, “I reckon we should all divide into pairs and practice.”
It felt very odd to be issuing instructions, but not nearly as odd as seeing
them followed. Everybody got to their feet at once and divided up.
Predictably, Neville was left partnerless.
“You can practice with me,” Harry told him. “Right — on the count of
three, then — one, two, three —”

The room was suddenly full of shouts of “Expelliarmus!”: Wands flew in
all directions, missed spells hit books on shelves and sent them flying into
the air. Harry was too quick for Neville, whose wand went spinning out of
his hand, hit the ceiling in a shower of sparks, and landed with a clatter on
top of a bookshelf, from which Harry retrieved it with a Summoning
Charm. Glancing around he thought he had been right to suggest that they
practice the basics first; there was a lot of shoddy spellwork going on; many
people were not succeeding in disarming their opponents at all, but merely
causing them to jump backward a few paces or wince as the feeble spell
whooshed over them.
“Expelliarmus!” said Neville, and Harry, caught unawares, felt his wand
fly out of his hand.
“I DID IT!” said Neville gleefully. “I’ve never done it before — I DID
IT!”

“Good one!” said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to point out that in a
real duel situation Neville’s opponent was unlikely to be staring in the
opposite direction with his wand held loosely at his side. “Listen, Neville,
can you take it in turns to practice with Ron and Hermione for a couple of
minutes so I can walk around and see how the rest are doing?”
Harry moved off into the middle of the room. Something very odd was
happening to Zacharias Smith; every time he opened his mouth to disarm
Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly out of his hand, yet Anthony
did not seem to be making a sound. Harry did not have to look far for the
solution of the mystery, however; Fred and George were several feet from
Smith and taking it in turns to point their wands at his back.
“Sorry, Harry,” said George hastily, when Harry caught his eye.

“Couldn’t resist . . .”
Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct those who were
doing the spell wrong. Ginny was teamed with Michael Corner; she was
doing very well, whereas Michael was either very bad or unwilling to jinx
her. Ernie Macmillan was flourishing his wand unnecessarily, giving his
partner time to get in under his guard; the Creevey brothers were
enthusiastic but erratic and mainly responsible for all the books leaping off
the shelves around them. Luna Lovegood was similarly patchy, occasionally
sending Justin Finch-Fletchley’s wand spinning out of his hand, at other
times merely causing his hair to stand on end.

“Okay, stop!” Harry shouted. “Stop! STOP!”
I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted one lying on top of
the nearest row of books. He caught it up and blew hard. Everyone lowered
their wands.
“That wasn’t bad,” said Harry, “but there’s definite room for
improvement.” Zacharias Smith glared at him. “Let’s try again . . .”
He moved off around the room again, stopping here and there to make
suggestions. Slowly the general performance improved. He avoided going
near Cho and her friend for a while, but after walking twice around every
other pair in the room felt he could not ignore them any longer.
“Oh no,” said Cho rather wildly as he approached. “Expelliarmious! I
mean, Expellimellius! I — oh, sorry, Marietta!”

Her curly-haired friend’s sleeve had caught fire; Marietta extinguished it
with her own wand and glared at Harry as though it was his fault.
“You made me nervous, I was doing all right before then!” Cho told
Harry ruefully.

“That was quite good,” Harry lied, but when she raised her eyebrows he
said, “Well, no, it was lousy, but I know you can do it properly, I was
watching from over there . . .”
She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them rather sourly and turned
away.
“Don’t mind her,” Cho muttered. “She doesn’t really want to be here but
I made her come with me. Her parents have forbidden her to do anything
that might upset Umbridge, you see — her mum works for the Ministry.”
“What about your parents?” asked Harry.

“Well, they’ve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of Umbridge too,”
said Cho, drawing herself up proudly. “But if they think I’m not going to
fight You-Know-Who after what happened to Cedric —”
She broke off, looking rather confused, and an awkward silence fell
between them; Terry Boot’s wand went whizzing past Harry’s ear and hit
Alicia Spinnet hard on the nose.

“Well, my father is very supportive of any anti-Ministry action!” said
Luna Lovegood proudly from just behind Harry; evidently she had been
eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch-Fletchley attempted
to disentangle himself from the robes that had flown up over his head.
“He’s always saying he’d believe anything of Fudge, I mean, the number of
goblins Fudge has had assassinated! And of course he uses the Department
of Mysteries to develop terrible poisons, which he feeds secretly to anybody
who disagrees with him. And then there’s his Umgubular Slashkilter —”
“Don’t ask,” Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her mouth, looking
puzzled. She giggled.

“Hey, Harry,” Hermione called from the other end of the room, “have
you checked the time?”
He looked down at his watch and received a shock — it was already ten
past nine, which meant they needed to get back to their common rooms
immediately or risk being caught and punished by Filch for being out-ofbounds. He blew his whistle; everybody stopped shouting, “Expelliarmus!”
and the last couple of wands clattered to the floor.
“Well, that was pretty good,” said Harry, “but we’ve overrun, we’d better
leave it here. Same time, same place next week?”
“Sooner!” said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people nodded in
agreement.

Angelina, however, said quickly, “The Quidditch season’s about to start,
we need team practices too!”
“Let’s say next Wednesday night, then,” said Harry, “and we can decide
on additional meetings then. . . . Come on, we’d better get going . . .”
He pulled out the Marauder’s Map again and checked it carefully for
signs of teachers on the seventh floor. He let them all leave in threes and
fours, watching their tiny dots anxiously to see that they returned safely to
their dormitories: the Hufflepuffs to the basement corridor that also led to
the kitchens, the Ravenclaws to a tower on the west side of the castle, and
the Gryffindors along the corridor to the seventh floor and the Fat Lady’s
portrait.

“That was really, really good, Harry,” said Hermione, when finally it was
just her, Harry, and Ron left.
“Yeah, it was!” said Ron enthusiastically, as they slipped out of the door
and watched it melt back into stone behind them. “Did you see me disarm
Hermione, Harry?”
“Only once,” said Hermione, stung. “I got you loads more than you got
me —”
“I did not only get you once, I got you at least three times —”
“Well, if you’re counting the one where you tripped over your own feet
and knocked the wand out of my hand —”
They argued all the way back to the common room, but Harry was not
listening to them. He had one eye on the Marauder’s Map, but he was also
thinking of how Cho had said he made her nervous. . . .


CHAPTER  NINETEEN

THE LION AND THE SERPENT

arry felt as though he were carrying some kind of talisman inside his
chest over the following two weeks, a glowing secret that supported
him through Umbridge’s classes and even made it possible for him to smile
blandly as he looked into her horrible bulging eyes. He and the D.A. were
resisting her under her very nose, doing the very thing that she and the
Ministry most feared, and whenever he was supposed to be reading Wilbert
Slinkhard’s book during her lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying
memories of their most recent meetings, remembering how Neville had
successfully disarmed Hermione, how Colin Creevey had mastered the
Impediment Jinx after three meetings’ hard effort, how Parvati Patil had
produced such a good Reductor Curse that she had reduced the table
carrying all the Sneakoscopes to dust.

He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular night of the week for
D.A. meetings, as they had to accommodate three separate Quidditch
teams’ practices, which were often rearranged depending on the weather
conditions; but Harry was not sorry about this, he had a feeling that it was
probably better to keep the timing of their meetings unpredictable. If
anyone was watching them, it would be hard to make out a pattern.

Hermione soon devised a very clever method of communicating the time
and date of the next meeting to all the members in case they needed to
change it at short notice, because it would look so suspicious if people from
different Houses were seen crossing the Great Hall to talk to each other too
often. She gave each of the members of the D.A. a fake Galleon (Ron
became very excited when he saw the basket at first, convinced that she was
actually giving out gold).

“You see the numerals around the edge of the coins?” Hermione said,
holding one up for examination at the end of their fourth meeting. The coin
gleamed fat and yellow in the light from the torches. “On real Galleons
that’s just a serial number referring to the goblin who cast the coin. On
these fake coins, though, the numbers will change to reflect the time and
date of the next meeting. The coins will grow hot when the date changes, so
if you’re carrying them in a pocket you’ll be able to feel them. We take one
each, and when Harry sets the date of the next meeting he’ll change the
numbers on his coin, and because I’ve put a Protean Charm on them, they’ll
all change to mimic his.”

A blank silence greeted Hermione’s words. She looked around at all the
faces upturned to her, rather disconcerted.
“Well — I thought it was a good idea,” she said uncertainly, “I mean,
even if Umbridge asked us to turn out our pockets, there’s nothing fishy
about carrying a Galleon, is there? But . . . well, if you don’t want to use
them . . .”

“You can do a Protean Charm?” said Terry Boot.
“Yes,” said Hermione.
“But that’s . . . that’s N.E.W.T. standard, that is,” he said weakly.
“Oh,” said Hermione, trying to look modest. “Oh  .  .  . well  .  .  . yes, I
suppose it is . . .”

“How come you’re not in Ravenclaw?” he demanded, staring at
Hermione with something close to wonder. “With brains like yours?”
“Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting me in Ravenclaw
during my Sorting,” said Hermione brightly, “but it decided on Gryffindor
in the end. So does that mean we’re using the Galleons?”
There was a murmur of assent and everybody moved forward to collect
one from the basket. Harry looked sideways at Hermione.

“You know what these remind me of?”
“No, what’s that?”
“The Death Eaters’ scars. Voldemort touches one of them, and all their
scars burn, and they know they’ve got to join him.”
“Well . . . yes,” said Hermione quietly. “That is where I got the idea . . .
but you’ll notice I decided to engrave the date on bits of metal rather than
on our members’ skin . . .”
“Yeah  .  .  . I prefer your way,” said Harry, grinning, as he slipped his
Galleon into his pocket. “I suppose the only danger with these is that we
might accidentally spend them.”

“Fat chance,” said Ron, who was examining his own fake Galleon with a
slightly mournful air. “I haven’t got any real Galleons to confuse it with.”
As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor versus Slytherin,
drew nearer, their D.A. meetings were put on hold because Angelina
insisted on almost daily practices. The fact that the Quidditch Cup had not
been held for so long added considerably to the interest and excitement
surrounding the forthcoming game. The Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were
taking a lively interest in the outcome, for they, of course, would be playing
both teams over the coming year; and the Heads of House of the competing
teams, though they attempted to disguise it under a decent pretense of
sportsmanship, were determined to see their side’s victory. Harry realized
how much Professor McGonagall cared about beating Slytherin when she
abstained from giving them homework in the week leading up to the match.

“I think you’ve got enough to be getting on with at the moment,” she said
loftily. Nobody could quite believe their ears until she looked directly at
Harry and Ron and said grimly, “I’ve become accustomed to seeing the
Quidditch Cup in my study, boys, and I really don’t want to have to hand it
over to Professor Snape, so use the extra time to practice, won’t you?”

Snape was no less obviously partisan: He had booked the Quidditch pitch
for Slytherin practice so often that the Gryffindors had difficulty getting on
it to play. He was also turning a deaf ear to the many reports of Slytherin
attempts to hex Gryffindor players in the corridors. When Alicia Spinnet
turned up in the hospital wing with her eyebrows growing so thick and fast
that they obscured her vision and obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that
she must have attempted a Hair-Thickening Charm on herself and refused
to listen to the fourteen eyewitnesses who insisted that they had seen the
Slytherin Keeper, Miles Bletchley, hit her from behind with a jinx while she
worked in the library.

Harry felt optimistic about Gryffindor’s chances; they had, after all,
never lost to Malfoy’s team. Admittedly Ron was still not performing to
Wood’s standard, but he was working extremely hard to improve. His
greatest weakness was a tendency to lose confidence when he made a
blunder; if he let in one goal he became flustered and was therefore likely to
miss more. On the other hand, Harry had seen Ron make some truly
spectacular saves when he was on form: During one memorable practice, he
had hung one-handed from his broom and kicked the Quaffle so hard away
from the goal hoop that it soared the length of the pitch and through the
center hoop at the other end. The rest of the team felt this save compared
favorably with one made recently by Barry Ryan, the Irish International
Keeper, against Poland’s top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski. Even Fred had
said that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and that they were
seriously considering admitting that he was related to them, something he
assured Ron they had been trying to deny for four years.

The only thing really worrying Harry was how much Ron was allowing
the tactics of the Slytherin team to upset him before they even got onto the
pitch. Harry, of course, had endured their snide comments for more than
four years, so whispers of, “Hey, Potty, I heard Warrington’s sworn to
knock you off your broom on Saturday,” far from chilling his blood, made
him laugh. “Warrington’s aim’s so pathetic I’d be more worried if he was
aiming for the person next to me,” he retorted, which made Ron and
Hermione laugh and wiped the smirk off Pansy Parkinson’s face.
But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of insults, jeers, and
intimidation. When Slytherins, some of them seventh years and
considerably larger than he was, muttered as they passed in the corridors,
“Got your bed booked in the hospital wing, Weasley?” he did not laugh, but
turned a delicate shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron
dropping the Quaffle (which he did whenever they were within sight of
each other), Ron’s ears glowed red and his hands shook so badly that he
was likely to drop whatever he was holding at the time too.

October extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds and driving rain
and November arrived, cold as frozen iron, with hard frosts every morning
and icy drafts that bit at exposed hands and faces. The skies and the ceiling
of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly gray, the mountains around Hogwarts
became snowcapped, and the temperature in the castle dropped so far that
many students wore their thick protective dragon skin gloves in the
corridors between lessons.

The morning of the match dawned bright and cold. When Harry awoke
he looked around at Ron’s bed and saw him sitting bolt upright, his arms
around his knees, staring fixedly into space.
“You all right?” said Harry.

Ron nodded but did not speak. Harry was reminded forcibly of the time
that Ron had accidentally put a slug-vomiting charm on himself. He looked
just as pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to mention as reluctant to
open his mouth.

“You just need some breakfast,” Harry said bracingly. “C’mon.”
The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, the talk louder and
the mood more exuberant than usual. As they passed the Slytherin table
there was an upsurge of noise; Harry looked around and saw that nearly
everyone there was wearing, in addition to the usual green-and-silver
scarves and hats, silver badges in the shape of what seemed to be crowns.
For some reason many of them waved at Ron, laughing uproariously. Harry
tried to see what was written on the badges as he walked by, but he was too
concerned to get Ron past their table quickly to linger long enough to read
them.

They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor table, where
everyone was wearing red and gold, but far from raising Ron’s spirits the
cheers seemed to sap the last of his morale; he collapsed onto the nearest
bench looking as though he were facing his final meal.
“I must’ve been mental to do this,” he said in a croaky whisper.
“Mental.”

“Don’t be thick,” said Harry firmly, passing him a choice of cereals.
“You’re going to be fine. It’s normal to be nervous.”
“I’m rubbish,” croaked Ron. “I’m lousy. I can’t play to save my life.
What was I thinking?”
“Get a grip,” said Harry sternly. “Look at that save you made with your
foot the other day, even Fred and George said it was brilliant —”
Ron turned a tortured face to Harry.

“That was an accident,” he whispered miserably. “I didn’t mean to do it
— I slipped off my broom when none of you were looking and I was trying
to get back on and I kicked the Quaffle by accident.”
“Well,” said Harry, recovering quickly from this unpleasant surprise, “a
few more accidents like that and the game’s in the bag, isn’t it?”
Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing red-and-gold
scarves, gloves, and rosettes.

“How’re you feeling?” Ginny asked Ron, who was now staring into the
dregs of milk at the bottom of his empty cereal bowl as though seriously
considering attempting to drown himself in them.
“He’s just nervous,” said Harry.

“Well, that’s a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams if
you’re not a bit nervous,” said Hermione heartily.
“Hello,” said a vague and dreamy voice from behind them. Harry looked
up: Luna Lovegood had drifted over from the Ravenclaw table. Many
people were staring at her and a few openly laughing and pointing; she had
managed to procure a hat shaped like a life-size lion’s head, which was
perched precariously on her head.
“I’m supporting Gryffindor,” said Luna, pointing unnecessarily at her
hat. “Look what it does . . .”
She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It opened its mouth
wide and gave an extremely realistic roar that made everyone in the vicinity
jump.

“It’s good, isn’t it?” said Luna happily. “I wanted to have it chewing up a
serpent to represent Slytherin, you know, but there wasn’t time. Anyway . . .
good luck, Ronald!”
She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from the shock of Luna’s
hat before Angelina came hurrying toward them, accompanied by Katie and
Alicia, whose eyebrows had mercifully been returned to normal by Madam
Pomfrey.

“When you’re ready,” she said, “we’re going to go straight down to the
pitch, check out conditions and change.”
“We’ll be there in a bit,” Harry assured her. “Ron’s just got to have some
breakfast.”

It became clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron was not capable of
eating anything more and Harry thought it best to get him down to the
changing rooms. As they rose from the table, Hermione got up too, and
taking Harry’s arm, she drew him to one side.
“Don’t let Ron see what’s on those Slytherins’ badges,” she whispered
urgently.

Harry looked questioningly at her, but she shook her head warningly;
Ron had just ambled over to them, looking lost and desperate.
“Good luck, Ron,” said Hermione, standing on tiptoe and kissing him on
the cheek. “And you, Harry —”
Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they walked back across the
Great Hall. He touched the spot on his face where Hermione had kissed
him, looking puzzled, as though he was not quite sure what had just
happened. He seemed too distracted to notice much around him, but Harry
cast a curious glance at the crown-shaped badges as they passed the
Slytherin table, and this time he made out the words etched onto them:

With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean nothing good, he hurried
Ron across the entrance hall, down the stone steps, and out into the icy air.
The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they hurried down the
sloping lawns toward the stadium. There was no wind at all and the sky was
a uniform pearly white, which meant that visibility would be good without
the drawback of direct sunlight in the eyes. Harry pointed out these
encouraging factors to Ron as they walked, but he was not sure that Ron
was listening.

Angelina had changed already and was talking to the rest of the team
when they entered. Harry and Ron pulled on their robes (Ron attempted to
do his up back-to-front for several minutes before Alicia took pity on him
and went to help) and then sat down to listen to the pre-match talk while the
babble of voices outside grew steadily louder as the crowd came pouring
out of the castle toward the pitch.

“Okay, I’ve only just found out the final lineup for Slytherin,” said
Angelina, consulting a piece of parchment. “Last year’s Beaters, Derrick
and Bole, have left now, but it looks as though Montague’s replaced them
with the usual gorillas, rather than anyone who can fly particularly well.
They’re two blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I don’t know much about
them —”

“We do,” said Harry and Ron together.
“Well, they don’t look bright enough to tell one end of a broom from
another,” said Angelina, pocketing her parchment, “but then I was always
surprised Derrick and Bole managed to find their way onto the pitch
without signposts.”

“Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mold,” Harry assured her.
They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the banked benches of
the spectators’ stands now. Some people were singing, though Harry could
not make out the words. He was starting to feel nervous, but he knew his
butterflies were as nothing to Ron’s, who was clutching his stomach and
staring straight ahead again, his jaw set and his complexion pale gray.
“It’s time,” said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at her watch.
“C’mon everyone . . . good luck.”

The team rose, shouldered their brooms, and marched in single file out of
the changing room and into the dazzling sky. A roar of sound greeted them
in which Harry could still hear singing, though it was muffled by the cheers
and whistles.

The Slytherin team were standing waiting for them. They too were
wearing those silver crown-shaped badges. The new captain, Montague,
was built along the same lines as Dudley, with massive forearms like hairy
hams. Behind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, almost as large, blinking
stupidly, swinging their new Beaters’ bats. Malfoy stood to one side, the
sunlight gleaming on his white-blond head. He caught Harry’s eye and
smirked, tapping the crown-shaped badge on his chest.
“Captains shake hands,” ordered the umpire, Madam Hooch, as Angelina
and Montague reached each other. Harry could tell that Montague was
trying to crush Angelina’s fingers, though she did not wince. “Mount your
brooms . . .”

Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and blew.
The balls were released and the fourteen players shot upward; out of the
corner of his eye Harry saw Ron streak off toward the goal hoops. He
zoomed higher, dodging a Bludger, and set off on a wide lap of the pitch,
gazing around for a glint of gold; on the other side of the stadium, Draco
Malfoy was doing exactly the same.

“And it’s Johnson, Johnson with the Quaffle, what a player that girl is,
I’ve been saying it for years but she still won’t go out with me —”
“JORDAN!” yelled Professor McGonagall.
“Just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest — and she’s ducked
Warrington, she’s passed Montague, she’s — ouch — been hit from behind
by a Bludger from Crabbe. . . . Montague catches the Quaffle, Montague
heading back up the pitch and — nice Bludger there from George Weasley,
that’s a Bludger to the head for Montague, he drops the Quaffle, caught by
Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse passes to Alicia Spinnet and
Spinnet’s away —”

Lee Jordan’s commentary rang through the stadium and Harry listened as
hard as he could through the wind whistling in his ears and the din of the
crowd, all yelling and booing and singing —
“— dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger — close call, Alicia — and the
crowd are loving this, just listen to them, what’s that they’re singing?”
And as Lee paused to listen the song rose loud and clear from the sea of
green and silver in the Slytherin section of the stands:

Weasley cannot save a thing,
He cannot block a single ring,
That’s why Slytherins all sing:
Weasley is our King.
Weasley was born in a bin,
He always lets the Quaffle in,
Weasley will make sure we win,
Weasley is our King.
“— and Alicia passes back to Angelina!” Lee shouted, and as Harry
swerved, his insides boiling at what he had just heard, he knew Lee was
trying to drown out the sound of the singing. “Come on now, Angelina —
looks like she’s got just the Keeper to beat! — SHE SHOOTS — SHE —
aaaah . . .”
Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal; he threw the Quaffle
to Warrington who sped off with it, zigzagging in between Alicia and Katie;
the singing from below grew louder and louder as he drew nearer and
nearer Ron —
Weasley is our King,
Weasley is our King,
He always lets the Quaffle in,
Weasley is our King.

Harry could not help himself: Abandoning his search for the Snitch, he
turned his Firebolt toward Ron, a lone figure at the far end of the pitch,
hovering before the three goal hoops while the massive Warrington pelted
toward him . . .
“— and it’s Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington heading for goal,
he’s out of Bludger range with just the Keeper ahead —”
A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands below:
Weasley cannot save a thing,
He cannot block a single ring . . .
“— so it’s the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper, Weasley, brother of
Beaters, Fred and George, and a promising new talent on the team — come
on, Ron!”

But the scream of delight came from the Slytherin end: Ron had dived
wildly, his arms wide, and the Quaffle had soared between them, straight
through Ron’s central hoop.
“Slytherin score!” came Lee’s voice amid the cheering and booing from
the crowds below. “So that’s ten-nil to Slytherin — bad luck, Ron . . .”
The Slytherins sang even louder:
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN,
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN . . .

“— and Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie Bell tanking up the
pitch —” cried Lee valiantly, though the singing was now so deafening that
he could hardly make himself heard above it.
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN,
WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . .
“Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” screamed Angelina, soaring past
him to keep up with Katie. “GET GOING!”
Harry realized that he had been stationary in midair for more than a
minute, watching the progress of the match without sparing a thought for
the whereabouts of the Snitch; horrified, he went into a dive and started
circling the pitch again, staring around, trying to ignore the chorus now
thundering through the stadium:

WEASLEY IS OUR KING,
WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . .
There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked; Malfoy was still
circling the stadium just like Harry. They passed midway around the pitch
going in opposite directions and Harry heard Malfoy singing loudly,
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN . . .
“— and it’s Warrington again,” bellowed Lee, “who passes to Pucey,
Pucey’s off past Spinnet, come on now Angelina, you can take him — turns
out you can’t — but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, George
Weasley, oh who cares, one of them anyway, and Warrington drops the
Quaffle and Katie Bell — er — drops it too — so that’s Montague with the
Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Montague takes the Quaffle, and he’s off up the
pitch, come on now Gryffindor, block him!”
Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium behind the Slytherin goal
hoops, willing himself not to look at what was going on at Ron’s end; as he
sped past the Slytherin Keeper, he heard Bletchley singing along with the
crowd below,

WEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A THING . . .
“— and Pucey’s dodged Alicia again, and he’s heading straight for goal,
stop it, Ron!”
Harry did not have to look to see what had happened: There was a
terrible groan from the Gryffindor end, coupled with fresh screams and
applause from the Slytherins. Looking down, Harry saw the pug-faced
Pansy Parkinson right at the front of the stands, her back to the pitch as she
conducted the Slytherin supporters who were roaring:
THAT’S WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING:

WEASLEY IS OUR KING.
But twenty–nil was nothing, there was still time for Gryffindor to catch
up or catch the Snitch, a few goals and they would be in the lead as usual,
Harry assured himself, bobbing and weaving through the other players in
pursuit of something shiny that turned out to be Montague’s watch
strap. . . .

But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of panic in Harry’s
desire to find the Snitch now. If he could just get it soon and finish the game
quickly . . .
“— and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks Montague, nice
swerve, Katie, and she throws to Johnson, Angelina Johnson takes the
Quaffle, she’s past Warrington, she’s heading for goal, come on now
Angelina — GRYFFINDOR SCORE! It’s forty–ten, forty–ten to Slytherin
and Pucey has the Quaffle . . .”
Harry could hear Luna’s ludicrous lion hat roaring amidst the Gryffindor
cheers and felt heartened; only thirty points in it, that was nothing, they
could pull back easily. Harry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had sent
rocketing in his direction and resumed his frantic scouring of the pitch for
the Snitch, keeping one eye on Malfoy in case he showed signs of having
spotted it, but Malfoy, like him, was continuing to soar around the stadium,
searching fruitlessly . . .

“— Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to Montague, Montague
back to Pucey — Johnson intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaffle, Johnson to
Bell, this looks good — I mean bad — Bell’s hit by a Bludger from Goyle
of Slytherin and it’s Pucey in possession again . . .”
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN,
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN,
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN —
But Harry had seen it at last: The tiny fluttering Golden Snitch was
hovering feet from the ground at the Slytherin end of the pitch.
He dived. . . .

In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of the sky on Harry’s
left, a green-and-silver blur lying flat on his broom. . . .
The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goal hoops and scooted off
toward the other side of the stands; its change of direction suited Malfoy,
who was nearer. Harry pulled his Firebolt around, he and Malfoy were now
neck and neck . . .
Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from his broom,
stretching toward the Snitch  .  .  . to his right, Malfoy’s arm extended too,
reaching, groping . . .

It was over in two breathless, desperate, windswept seconds — Harry’s
fingers closed around the tiny, struggling ball — Malfoy’s fingernails
scrabbled the back of Harry’s hand hopelessly — Harry pulled his broom
upward, holding the struggling ball in his hand and the Gryffindor
spectators screamed their approval. . . .
They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in those goals,
nobody would remember as long as Gryffindor had won —
WHAM!

A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the back and he flew
forward off his broom; luckily he was only five or six feet above the
ground, having dived so low to catch the Snitch, but he was winded all the
same as he landed flat on his back on the frozen pitch. He heard Madam
Hooch’s shrill whistle, an uproar in the stands compounded of catcalls,
angry yells and jeering, a thud, then Angelina’s frantic voice.
“Are you all right?”
“’Course I am,” said Harry grimly, taking her hand and allowing her to
pull him to his feet. Madam Hooch was zooming toward one of the
Slytherin players above him, though he could not see who it was at this
angle.

“It was that thug, Crabbe,” said Angelina angrily. “He whacked the
Bludger at you the moment he saw you’d got the Snitch — but we won,
Harry, we won!”
Harry heard a snort from behind him and turned around, still holding the
Snitch tightly in his hand: Draco Malfoy had landed close by; white-faced
with fury, he was still managing to sneer.
“Saved Weasley’s neck, haven’t you?” he said to Harry. “I’ve never seen
a worse Keeper . . . but then he was born in a bin. . . . Did you like my
lyrics, Potter?”

Harry did not answer; he turned away to meet the rest of the team who
were now landing one by one, yelling and punching the air in triumph, all
except Ron, who had dismounted from his broom over by the goalposts and
was making his way slowly back to the changing rooms alone.
“We wanted to write another couple of verses!” Malfoy called, as Katie
and Alicia hugged Harry. “But we couldn’t find rhymes for fat and ugly —
we wanted to sing about his mother, see —”

“Talk about sour grapes,” said Angelina, casting Malfoy a disgusted look.
“— we couldn’t fit in useless loser either — for his father, you know —”
Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking about. Halfway
through shaking Harry’s hand they stiffened, looking around at Malfoy.
“Leave it,” said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the arm. “Leave it,
Fred, let him yell, he’s just sore he lost, the jumped-up little —”
“— but you like the Weasleys, don’t you, Potter?” said Malfoy, sneering.
“Spend holidays there and everything, don’t you? Can’t see how you stand
the stink, but I suppose when you’ve been dragged up by Muggles even the
Weasleys’ hovel smells okay —”

Harry grabbed hold of George; meanwhile it was taking the combined
efforts of Angelina, Alicia, and Katie to stop Fred leaping on Malfoy, who
was laughing openly. Harry looked around for Madam Hooch, but she was
still berating Crabbe for his illegal Bludger attack.
“Or perhaps,” said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, “you can
remember what your mother’s house stank like, Potter, and Weasley’s
pigsty reminds you of it —”

Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew was that a second
later both of them were sprinting at Malfoy. He had completely forgotten
the fact that all the teachers were watching: All he wanted to do was cause
Malfoy as much pain as possible. With no time to draw out his wand, he
merely drew back the fist clutching the Snitch and sank it as hard as he
could into Malfoy’s stomach —
“Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! NO!”

He could hear girls’ voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, George swearing,
a whistle blowing, and the bellowing of the crowd around him, but he did
not care, not until somebody in the vicinity yelled “IMPEDIMENTA!” and
only when he was knocked over backward by the force of the spell did he
abandon the attempt to punch every inch of Malfoy he could reach. . . .
“What do you think you’re doing?” screamed Madam Hooch, as Harry
leapt to his feet again; it was she who had hit him with the Impediment
Jinx. She was holding her whistle in one hand and a wand in the other, her
broom lay abandoned several feet away. Malfoy was curled up on the
ground, whimpering and moaning, his nose bloody; George was sporting a
swollen lip; Fred was still being forcibly restrained by the three Chasers,
and Crabbe was cackling in the background. “I’ve never seen behavior like
it — back up to the castle, both of you, and straight to your Head of
House’s office! Go! Now!”

Harry and George marched off the pitch, both panting, neither saying a
word to each other. The howling and jeering of the crowd grew fainter and
fainter until they reached the entrance hall, where they could hear nothing
except the sound of their own footsteps. Harry became aware that
something was still struggling in his right hand, the knuckles of which he
had bruised against Malfoy’s jaw; looking down he saw the Snitch’s silver
wings protruding from between his fingers, struggling for release.
They had barely reached the door of Professor McGonagall’s office when
she came marching along the corridor behind them. She was wearing a
Gryffindor scarf, but tore it from her throat with shaking hands as she strode
toward them, looking livid.

“In!” she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry and George entered.
She strode around behind her desk and faced them, quivering with rage as
she threw the Gryffindor scarf aside onto the floor.
“Well?” she said. “I have never seen such a disgraceful exhibition. Two
onto one! Explain yourselves!”

“Malfoy provoked us,” said Harry stiffly.
“Provoked you?” shouted Professor McGonagall, slamming a fist onto
her desk so that her tartan biscuit tin slid sideways off it and burst open,
littering the floor with Ginger Newts. “He’d just lost, hadn’t he, of course
he wanted to provoke you! But what on earth he can have said that justified
what you two —”
“He insulted my parents,” snarled George. “And Harry’s mother.”
“But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two decided
to give an exhibition of Muggle dueling, did you?” bellowed Professor
McGonagall. “Have you any idea what you’ve — ?”
“Hem, hem.”

George and Harry both spun around. Dolores Umbridge was standing in
the doorway wrapped in a green tweed cloak that greatly enhanced her
resemblance to a giant toad, and smiling in the horribly sickly, ominous
way that Harry had come to associate with imminent misery.
“May I help, Professor McGonagall?” asked Professor Umbridge in her
most poisonously sweet voice.
Blood rushed into Professor McGonagall’s face.
“Help?” she repeated in a constricted voice. “What do you mean,
‘help’?”

Professor Umbridge moved forward into the office, still smiling her
sickly smile.
“Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra authority.”
Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly from Professor
McGonagall’s nostrils.
“You thought wrong,” she said, turning her back on Umbridge. “Now,
you two had better listen closely. I do not care what provocation Malfoy
offered you, I do not care if he insulted every family member you possess,
your behavior was disgusting and I am giving each of you a week’s worth
of detention! Do not look at me like that, Potter, you deserve it! And if
either of you ever —”
“Hem, hem.”

Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though praying for patience as
she turned her face toward Professor Umbridge again.
“Yes?”
“I think they deserve rather more than detentions,” said Umbridge,
smiling still more broadly.
Professor McGonagall’s eyes flew open. “But unfortunately,” she said,
with an attempt at a reciprocal smile that made her look as though she had
lockjaw, “it is what I think that counts, as they are in my House, Dolores.”
“Well, actually, Minerva,” simpered Umbridge, “I think you’ll find that
what I think does count. Now, where is it? Cornelius just sent it.  .  .  . I
mean,” she gave a little false laugh as she rummaged in her handbag, “the
Minister just sent it. . . . Ah yes . . .”

She had pulled out a piece of parchment that she now unfurled, clearing
her throat fussily before starting to read what it said.
“Hem, hem . . . ‘Educational Decree Number Twenty-five . . .’”
“Not another one!” exclaimed Professor McGonagall violently.
“Well, yes,” said Umbridge, still smiling. “As a matter of fact, Minerva,
it was you who made me see that we needed a further amendment. . . . You
remember how you overrode me, when I was unwilling to allow the
Gryffindor Quidditch team to re-form? How you took the case to
Dumbledore, who insisted that the team be allowed to play? Well, now, I
couldn’t have that. I contacted the Minister at once, and he quite agreed
with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the power to strip pupils of
privileges, or she — that is to say, I — would have less authority than
common teachers! And you see now, don’t you, Minerva, how right I was in
attempting to stop the Gryffindor team re-forming? Dreadful tempers  . . .

Anyway, I was reading out our amendment . . . hem, hem . . . ‘The High
Inquisitor will henceforth have supreme authority over all punishments,
sanctions, and removal of privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts,
and the power to alter such punishments, sanctions, and removals of
privileges as may have been ordered by other staff members. Signed,
Cornelius Fudge, Minister of Magic, Order of Merlin First Class, etc.,
etc . . .’”

She rolled up the parchment and put it back into her handbag, still
smiling.
“So . . . I really think I will have to ban these two from playing Quidditch
ever again,” she said, looking from Harry to George and back again.
Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand.

“Ban us?” he said, and his voice sounded strangely distant. “From
playing . . . ever again?”
“Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the trick,” said
Umbridge, her smile widening still further as she watched him struggle to
comprehend what she had said. “You and Mr. Weasley here. And I think, to
be safe, this young man’s twin ought to be stopped too — if his teammates
had not restrained him, I feel sure he would have attacked young Mr.
Malfoy as well. I will want their broomsticks confiscated, of course; I shall
keep them safely in my office, to make sure there is no infringement of my
ban. But I am not unreasonable, Professor McGonagall,” she continued,
turning back to Professor McGonagall who was now standing as still as
though carved from ice, staring at her. “The rest of the team can continue
playing, I saw no signs of violence from any of them. Well  .  .  . good
afternoon to you.”

And with a look of the utmost satisfaction Umbridge left the room,
leaving a horrified silence in her wake.
“Banned,” said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that evening in the common
room. “Banned. No Seeker and no Beaters . . . What on earth are we going
to do?”
It did not feel as though they had won the match at all. Everywhere Harry
looked there were disconsolate and angry faces; the team themselves were
slumped around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not been seen since
the end of the match.

“It’s just so unfair,” said Alicia numbly. “I mean, what about Crabbe and
that Bludger he hit after the whistle had been blown? Has she banned him?”
“No,” said Ginny miserably; she and Hermione were sitting on either
side of Harry. “He just got lines, I heard Montague laughing about it at
dinner.”

“And banning Fred when he didn’t even do anything!” said Alicia
furiously, pummeling her knee with her fist.
“It’s not my fault I didn’t,” said Fred, with a very ugly look on his face.
“I would’ve pounded the little scumbag to a pulp if you three hadn’t been
holding me back.”
Harry stared miserably at the dark window. Snow was falling. The Snitch
he had caught earlier was now zooming around and around the common
room; people were watching its progress as though hypnotized and
Crookshanks was leaping from chair to chair, trying to catch it.
“I’m going to bed,” said Angelina, getting slowly to her feet. “Maybe this
will all turn out to have been a bad dream.  .  .  . Maybe I’ll wake up
tomorrow and find we haven’t played yet . . .”
She was soon followed by Alicia and Katie. Fred and George sloped off
to bed some time later, glowering at everyone they passed, and Ginny went
not long after that. Only Harry and Hermione were left beside the fire.
“Have you seen Ron?” Hermione asked in a low voice.
Harry shook his head.

“I think he’s avoiding us,” said Hermione. “Where do you think he — ?”
But at that precise moment, there was a creaking sound behind them as
the Fat Lady swung forward and Ron came clambering through the portrait
hole. He was very pale indeed and there was snow in his hair. When he saw
Harry and Hermione he stopped dead in his tracks.
“Where have you been?” said Hermione anxiously, springing up.
“Walking,” Ron mumbled. He was still wearing his Quidditch things.
“You look frozen,” said Hermione. “Come and sit down!”
Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair farthest from Harry’s,
not looking at him. The stolen Snitch zoomed over their heads.
“I’m sorry,” Ron mumbled, looking at his feet.
“What for?” said Harry.

“For thinking I can play Quidditch,” said Ron. “I’m going to resign first
thing tomorrow.”
“If you resign,” said Harry testily, “there’ll only be three players left on
the team.” And when Ron looked puzzled, he said, “I’ve been given a
lifetime ban. So’ve Fred and George.”
“What?” Ron yelped.
Hermione told him the full story; Harry could not bear to tell it again.
When she had finished, Ron looked more anguished than ever.
“This is all my fault —”
“You didn’t make me punch Malfoy,” said Harry angrily.
“— if I wasn’t so lousy at Quidditch —”
“— it’s got nothing to do with that —”
“— it was that song that wound me up —”
“— it would’ve wound anyone up —”

Hermione got up and walked to the window, away from the argument,
watching the snow swirling down against the pane.
“Look, drop it, will you!” Harry burst out. “It’s bad enough without you
blaming yourself for everything!”
Ron said nothing but sat gazing miserably at the damp hem of his robes.
After a while he said in a dull voice, “This is the worst I’ve ever felt in my
life.”

“Join the club,” said Harry bitterly.
“Well,” said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. “I can think of one
thing that might cheer you both up.”
“Oh yeah?” said Harry skeptically.
“Yeah,” said Hermione, turning away from the pitch-black, snow-flecked
window, a broad smile spreading across her face. “Hagrid’s back.”


CHAPTER  TWENTY

HAGRID’S TALE

arry sprinted up to the boys’ dormitory to fetch the Invisibility Cloak
and the Marauder’s Map from his trunk; he was so quick that he and
Ron were ready to leave at least five minutes before Hermione hurried back
down from the girls’ dormitories, wearing scarf, gloves, and one of her own
knobbly elf hats.

“Well, it’s cold out there!” she said defensively, as Ron clicked his
tongue impatiently.
They crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves hastily in the
Cloak — Ron had grown so much he now needed to crouch to prevent his
feet showing — then, moving slowly and cautiously, they proceeded down
the many staircases, pausing at intervals to check the map for signs of Filch
or Mrs. Norris. They were lucky; they saw nobody but Nearly Headless
Nick, who was gliding along absentmindedly humming something that
sounded horribly like “Weasley Is Our King.” They crept across the
entrance hall and then out into the silent, snowy grounds. With a great leap
of his heart, Harry saw little golden squares of light ahead and smoke
coiling up from Hagrid’s chimney. He set off at a quick march, the other
two jostling and bumping along behind him, and they crunched excitedly
through the thickening snow until at last they reached the wooden front
door; when Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog started
barking frantically inside.

“Hagrid, it’s us!” Harry called through the keyhole.
“Shoulda known!” said a gruff voice.
They beamed at one another under the Cloak; they could tell that
Hagrid’s voice was pleased. “Bin home three seconds  .  .  . Out the way,
Fang . . . Out the way, yeh dozy dog . . .”
The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open, and Hagrid’s head
appeared in the gap.
Hermione screamed.

“Merlin’s beard, keep it down!” said Hagrid hastily, staring wildly over
their heads. “Under that Cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!”
“I’m sorry!” Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Hagrid
into the house and pulled the Cloak off themselves so he could see them. “I
just — oh, Hagrid!”

“It’s nuthin’, it’s nuthin’!” said Hagrid hastily, shutting the door behind
them and hurrying to close all the curtains, but Hermione continued to gaze
up at him in horror.
Hagrid’s hair was matted with congealed blood, and his left eye had been
reduced to a puffy slit amid a mass of purple-and-black bruises. There were
many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleeding, and he was
moving gingerly, which made Harry suspect broken ribs. It was obvious
that he had only just got home; a thick black traveling cloak lay over the
back of a chair and a haversack large enough to carry several small children
leaned against the wall inside the door. Hagrid himself, twice the size of a
normal man and three times as broad, was now limping over to the fire and
placing a copper kettle over it.

“What happened to you?” Harry demanded, while Fang danced around
them all, trying to lick their faces.
“Told yeh, nuthin’,” said Hagrid firmly. “Want a cuppa?”
“Come off it,” said Ron, “you’re in a right state!”
“I’m tellin’ yeh, I’m fine,” said Hagrid, straightening up and turning to
beam at them all, but wincing. “Blimey, it’s good ter see you three again —
had good summers, did yeh?”

“Hagrid, you’ve been attacked!” said Ron.
“Fer the las’ time, it’s nuthin’!” said Hagrid firmly.
“Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound of
mince instead of a face?” Ron demanded.
“You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid,” said Hermione
anxiously. “Some of those cuts look nasty.”
“I’m dealin’ with it, all righ’?” said Hagrid repressively.
He walked across to the enormous wooden table that stood in the middle
of his cabin and twitched aside a tea towel that had been lying on it.
Underneath was a raw, bloody, green-tinged steak slightly larger than the
average car tire.

“You’re not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid?” said Ron, leaning in for a
closer look. “It looks poisonous.”
“It’s s’posed ter look like that, it’s dragon meat,” Hagrid said. “An’ I
didn’ get it ter eat.”
He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face.
Greenish blood trickled down into his beard as he gave a soft moan of
satisfaction.

“Tha’s better. It helps with the stingin’, yeh know.”
“So are you going to tell us what’s happened to you?” Harry asked.
“Can’, Harry. Top secret. More’n me job’s worth ter tell yeh that.”
“Did the giants beat you up, Hagrid?” asked Hermione quietly.
Hagrid’s fingers slipped on the dragon steak, and it slid squelchily onto
his chest.

“Giants?” said Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt and
slapping it back over his face. “Who said anythin’ abou’ giants? Who yeh
bin talkin’ to? Who’s told yeh what I’ve — who’s said I’ve bin — eh?”
“We guessed,” said Hermione apologetically.
“Oh, yeh did, did yeh?” said Hagrid, fixing her sternly with the eye that
was not hidden by the steak.

“It was kind of . . . obvious,” said Ron. Harry nodded.
Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak onto the table again
and strode back to the kettle, which was now whistling.
“Never known kids like you three fer knowin’ more’n yeh oughta,” he
muttered, splashing boiling water into three of his bucket-shaped mugs.
“An’ I’m not complimentin’ yeh, neither. Nosy, some’d call it. Interferin’.”
But his beard twitched.

“So you have been to look for giants?” said Harry, grinning as he sat
down at the table.
Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his steak
again, and slapped it back over his face.
“Yeah, all righ’,” he grunted, “I have.”
“And you found them?” said Hermione in a hushed voice.
“Well, they’re not that difficult ter find, ter be honest,” said Hagrid.
“Pretty big, see.”
“Where are they?” said Ron.
“Mountains,” said Hagrid unhelpfully.
“So why don’t Muggles — ?”
“They do,” said Hagrid darkly. “O’ny their deaths are always put down
ter mountaineerin’ accidents, aren’ they?”
He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the worst of the bruising.
“Come on, Hagrid, tell us what you’ve been up to!” said Ron. “Tell us
about being attacked by the giants and Harry can tell you about being
attacked by the dementors —”

Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time; a large
quantity of spit, tea, and dragon blood was sprayed over the table as Hagrid
coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft splat, onto the floor.
“Whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors?” growled Hagrid.
“Didn’t you know?” Hermione asked him, wide-eyed.
“I don’ know anything that’s been happenin’ since I left. I was on a secret
mission, wasn’ I, didn’ wan’ owls followin’ me all over the place — ruddy
dementors! Yeh’re not serious?”
“Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and attacked my cousin
and me, and then the Ministry of Magic expelled me —”
“WHAT?”
“— and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but tell us about the
giants first.”
“You were expelled?”

“Tell us about your summer and I’ll tell you about mine.”
Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry looked right back,
an expression of innocent determination on his face.
“Oh, all righ’,” Hagrid said in a resigned voice.
He bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of Fang’s mouth.
“Oh, Hagrid, don’t, it’s not hygien —” Hermione began, but Hagrid had
already slapped the meat back over his swollen eye. He took another
fortifying gulp of tea and then said, “Well, we set off righ’ after term ended
—”

“Madame Maxime went with you, then?” Hermione interjected.
“Yeah, tha’s right,” said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared on
the few inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green steak.
“Yeah, it was jus’ the pair of us. An’ I’ll tell yeh this, she’s not afraid of
roughin’ it, Olympe. Yeh know, she’s a fine, well-dressed woman, an’
knowin’ where we was goin’ I wondered ’ow she’d feel abou’ clamberin’
over boulders an’ sleepin’ in caves an’ tha’, bu’ she never complained
once.”

“You knew where you were going?” Harry asked. “You knew where the
giants were?”
“Well, Dumbledore knew, an’ he told us,” said Hagrid.
“Are they hidden?” asked Ron. “Is it a secret, where they are?”
“Not really,” said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. “It’s jus’ that mos’
wizards aren’ bothered where they are, s’ long as it’s a good long way away.
But where they are’s very difficult ter get ter, fer humans anyway, so we
needed Dumbledore’s instructions. Took us abou’ a month ter get there —”
“A month?” said Ron, as though he had never heard of a journey lasting
such a ridiculously long time. “But — why couldn’t you just grab a Portkey
or something?”

There was an odd expression in Hagrid’s unobscured eye as he squinted
at Ron; it was almost pitying.
“We’re bein’ watched, Ron,” he said gruffly.
“What d’you mean?”
“Yeh don’ understand,” said Hagrid. “The Ministry’s keepin’ an eye on
Dumbledore an’ anyone they reckon’s in league with him, an’ —”
“We know about that,” said Harry quickly, keen to hear the rest of
Hagrid’s story. “We know about the Ministry watching Dumbledore —”
“So you couldn’t use magic to get there?” asked Ron, looking
thunderstruck. “You had to act like Muggles all the way?”
“Well, not exactly all the way,” said Hagrid cagily. “We jus’ had ter be
careful, ’cause Olympe an’ me, we stick out a bit —”
Ron made a stifled noise somewhere between a snort and a sniff and
hastily took a gulp of tea.

“— so we’re not hard ter follow. We was pretendin’ we was goin’ on
holiday together, so we got inter France an’ we made like we was headin’
fer where Olympe’s school is, ’cause we knew we was bein’ tailed by
someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, ’cause I’m not really
s’posed ter use magic an’ we knew the Ministry’d be lookin’ fer a reason
ter run us in. But we managed ter give the berk tailin’ us the slip round
abou’ Dee-John —”

“Ooooh, Dijon?” said Hermione excitedly. “I’ve been there on holiday,
did you see — ?”
She fell silent at the look on Ron’s face.
“We chanced a bit o’ magic after that, and it wasn’ a bad journey. Ran
inter a couple o’ mad trolls on the Polish border, an’ I had a sligh’
disagreement with a vampire in a pub in Minsk, but apart from tha’,
couldn’t’a bin smoother.

“An’ then we reached the place, an’ we started trekkin’ up through the
mountains, lookin’ fer signs of ’em . . .
“We had ter lay off the magic once we got near ’em. Partly ’cause they
don’ like wizards an’ we didn’ want ter put their backs up too soon, and
partly ’cause Dumbledore had warned us You-Know-Who was bound ter be
after the giants an’ all. Said it was odds on he’d sent a messenger off ter
them already. Told us ter be very careful of drawin’ attention ter ourselves
as we got nearer in case there was Death Eaters around.”
Hagrid paused for a long draught of tea.

“Go on!” said Harry urgently.
“Found ’em,” said Hagrid baldly. “Went over a ridge one nigh’ an’ there
they was, spread ou’ underneath us. Little fires burnin’ below an’ huge
shadows . . . It was like watchin’ bits o’ the mountain movin’.”
“How big are they?” asked Ron in a hushed voice.
“’Bout twenty feet,” said Hagrid casually. “Some o’ the bigger ones
mighta bin twenty-five.”
“And how many were there?” asked Harry.
“I reckon abou’ seventy or eighty,” said Hagrid.
“Is that all?” said Hermione.

“Yep,” said Hagrid sadly, “eighty left, an’ there was loads once, musta
bin a hundred diff’rent tribes from all over the world. But they’ve bin dyin’
out fer ages. Wizards killed a few, o’ course, but mostly they killed each
other, an’ now they’re dyin’ out faster than ever. They’re not made ter live
bunched up together like tha’. Dumbledore says it’s our fault, it was the
wizards who forced ’em to go an’ made ’em live a good long way from us
an’ they had no choice but ter stick together fer their own protection.”
“So,” said Harry, “you saw them and then what?”

“Well, we waited till morning, didn’ want ter go sneakin’ up on ’em in
the dark, fer our own safety,” said Hagrid. “’Bout three in the mornin’ they
fell asleep jus’ where they was sittin’. We didn’ dare sleep. Fer one thing,
we wanted ter make sure none of ’em woke up an’ came up where we were,
an’ fer another, the snorin’ was unbelievable. Caused an avalanche near
mornin’.

“Anyway, once it was light we wen’ down ter see ’em.”
“Just like that?” said Ron, looking awestruck. “You just walked right into
a giant camp?”
“Well, Dumbledore’d told us how ter do it,” said Hagrid. “Give the Gurg
gifts, show some respect, yeh know.”
“Give the what gifts?” asked Harry.
“Oh, the Gurg — means the chief.”
“How could you tell which one was the Gurg?” asked Ron.
Hagrid grunted in amusement.

“No problem,” he said. “He was the biggest, the ugliest, an’ the laziest.
Sittin’ there waitin’ ter be brought food by the others. Dead goats an’ such
like. Name o’ Karkus. I’d put him at twenty-two, twenty-three feet, an’ the
weight of a couple o’ bull elephants. Skin like rhino hide an’ all.”
“And you just walked up to him?” said Hermione breathlessly.
“Well . . . down ter him, where he was lyin’ in the valley. They was in
this dip between four pretty high mountains, see, beside a mountain lake,
an’ Karkus was lyin’ by the lake roarin’ at the others ter feed him an’ his
wife. Olympe an’ I went down the mountainside —”
“But didn’t they try and kill you when they saw you?” asked Ron
incredulously.

“It was def’nitely on some of their minds,” said Hagrid, shrugging, “but
we did what Dumbledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high
an’ keep our eyes on the Gurg an’ ignore the others. So tha’s what we did.
An’ the rest of ’em went quiet an’ watched us pass an’ we got right up ter
Karkus’s feet an’ we bowed an’ put our present down in front o’ him.”
“What do you give a giant?” asked Ron eagerly. “Food?”
“Nah, he can get food all righ’ fer himself,” said Hagrid. “We took him
magic. Giants like magic, jus’ don’t like us usin’ it against ’em. Anyway,
that firs’ day we gave him a branch o’ Gubraithian fire.”
Hermione said “wow” softly, but Harry and Ron both frowned in
puzzlement.
“A branch of — ?”

“Everlasting fire,” said Hermione irritably, “you ought to know that by
now, Professor Flitwick’s mentioned it at least twice in class!”
“Well anyway,” said Hagrid quickly, intervening before Ron could
answer back, “Dumbledore’d bewitched this branch to burn evermore,
which isn’ somethin’ any wizard could do, an’ so I lies it down in the snow
by Karkus’s feet and says, ‘A gift to the Gurg of the giants from Albus
Dumbledore, who sends his respectful greetings.’”
“And what did Karkus say?” asked Harry eagerly.
“Nothin’,” said Hagrid. “Didn’ speak English.”
“You’re kidding!”

“Didn’ matter,” said Hagrid imperturbably, “Dumbledore had warned us
tha’ migh’ happen. Karkus knew enough to yell fer a couple o’ giants who
knew our lingo an’ they translated fer us.”
“And did he like the present?” asked Ron.

“Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it was,” said
Hagrid, turning his dragon steak over to press the cooler side to his swollen
eye. “Very pleased. So then I said, ‘Albus Dumbledore asks the Gurg to
speak with his messenger when he returns tomorrow with another gift.’”
“Why couldn’t you speak to them that day?” asked Hermione.
“Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow,” said Hagrid. “Let ’em see
we kept our promises. We’ll come back tomorrow with another present, an’
then we do come back with another present — gives a good impression,
see? An’ gives them time ter test out the firs’ present an’ find out it’s a good
one, an’ get ’em eager fer more. In any case, giants like Karkus — overload
’em with information an’ they’ll kill yeh jus’ to simplify things. So we
bowed outta the way an’ went off an’ found ourselves a nice little cave ter
spend that night in, an’ the followin’ mornin’ we went back an’ this time we
found Karkus sittin’ up waitin’ fer us lookin’ all eager.”

“And you talked to him?”
“Oh yeah. Firs’ we presented him with a nice battle helmet — goblinmade an’ indestructible, yeh know — an’ then we sat down an’ we talked.”
“What did he say?”
“Not much,” said Hagrid. “Listened mostly. But there were good signs.
He’d heard o’ Dumbledore, heard he’d argued against the killin’ of the last
giants in Britain. Karkus seemed ter be quite int’rested in what Dumbledore
had ter say. An’ a few o’ the others, ’specially the ones who had some
English, they gathered round an’ listened too. We were hopeful when we
left that day. Promised ter come back next day with another present.
“But that night it all wen’ wrong.”
“What d’you mean?” said Ron quickly.

“Well, like I say, they’re not meant ter live together, giants,” said Hagrid
sadly. “Not in big groups like that. They can’ help themselves, they half kill
each other every few weeks. The men fight each other an’ the women fight
each other, the remnants of the old tribes fight each other, an’ that’s even
without squabbles over food an’ the best fires an’ sleepin’ spots. Yeh’d
think, seein’ as how their whole race is abou’ finished, they’d lay off each
other, but . . .”
Hagrid sighed deeply.

“That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave,
lookin’ down on the valley. Went on fer hours, yeh wouldn’ believe the
noise. An’ when the sun came up the snow was scarlet an’ his head was
lyin’ at the bottom o’ the lake.”
“Whose head?” gasped Hermione.
“Karkus’s,” said Hagrid heavily. “There was a new Gurg, Golgomath.”
He sighed deeply. “Well, we hadn’ bargained on a new Gurg two days after
we’d made friendly contact with the firs’ one, an’ we had a funny feelin’
Golgomath wouldn’ be so keen ter listen to us, but we had ter try.”
“You went to speak to him?” asked Ron incredulously. “After you’d
watched him rip off another giant’s head?”

“’Course we did,” said Hagrid, “we hadn’ gone all that way ter give up
after two days! We wen’ down with the next present we’d meant ter give ter
Karkus.
“I knew it was no go before I’d opened me mouth. He was sitting there
wearin’ Karkus’s helmet, leerin’ at us as we got nearer. He’s massive, one
o’ the biggest ones there. Black hair an’ matchin’ teeth an’ a necklace o’
bones. Human-lookin’ bones, some of ’em. Well, I gave it a go — held out
a great roll o’ dragon skin — an’ said ‘A gift fer the Gurg of the giants —’
Nex’ thing I knew, I was hangin’ upside down in the air by me feet, two of
his mates had grabbed me.”

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth.
“How did you get out of that?” asked Harry.
“Wouldn’ta done if Olympe hadn’ bin there,” said Hagrid. “She pulled
out her wand an’ did some o’ the fastes’ spellwork I’ve ever seen. Ruddy
marvelous. Hit the two holdin’ me right in the eyes with Conjunctivitus
Curses an’ they dropped me straightaway — bu’ we were in trouble then,
’cause we’d used magic against ’em, an’ that’s what giants hate abou’
wizards. We had ter leg it an’ we knew there was no way we was going ter
be able ter march inter camp again.”
“Blimey, Hagrid,” said Ron quietly.
“So how come it’s taken you so long to get home if you were only there
for three days?” asked Hermione.
“We didn’ leave after three days!” said Hagrid, looking outraged.
“Dumbledore was relyin’ on us!”

“But you’ve just said there was no way you could go back!”
“Not by daylight, we couldn’, no. We just had ter rethink a bit. Spent a
couple o’ days lyin’ low up in the cave an’ watchin’. An’ wha’ we saw
wasn’ good.”
“Did he rip off more heads?” asked Hermione, sounding squeamish.
“No,” said Hagrid. “I wish he had.”
“What d’you mean?”
“I mean we soon found out he didn’ object ter all wizards — just us.”
“Death Eaters?” said Harry quickly.
“Yep,” said Hagrid darkly. “Couple of ’em were visitin’ him ev’ry day,
bringin’ gifts ter the Gurg, an’ he wasn’ dangling them upside down.”
“How d’you know they were Death Eaters?” said Ron.
“Because I recognized one of ’em,” Hagrid growled. “Macnair,
remember him? Bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes
killin’ as much as Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin’ on so well.”
“So Macnair’s persuaded the giants to join You-Know-Who?” said
Hermione desperately.

“Hold yer hippogriffs, I haven’ finished me story yet!” said Hagrid
indignantly, who, considering he had not wanted to tell them anything in the
first place, now seemed to be rather enjoying himself. “Me an’ Olympe
talked it over an’ we agreed, jus’ ’cause the Gurg looked like favorin’ YouKnow-Who didn’ mean all of ’em would. We had ter try an’ persuade some
o’ the others, the ones who hadn’ wanted Golgomath as Gurg.”
“How could you tell which ones they were?” asked Ron.
“Well, they were the ones bein’ beaten to a pulp, weren’ they?” said
Hagrid patiently. “The ones with any sense were keepin’ outta Golgomath’s
way, hidin’ out in caves roun’ the gully jus’ like we were. So we decided
we’d go pokin’ round the caves by night an’ see if we couldn’ persuade a
few o’ them.”

“You went poking around dark caves looking for giants?” said Ron with
awed respect in his voice.
“Well, it wasn’ the giants who worried us most,” said Hagrid. “We were
more concerned abou’ the Death Eaters. Dumbledore had told us before we
wen’ not ter tangle with ’em if we could avoid it, an’ the trouble was they
knew we was around — ’spect Golgomath told him abou’ us. At night when
the giants were sleepin’ an’ we wanted ter be creepin’ inter the caves,
Macnair an’ the other one were sneakin’ round the mountains lookin’ fer us.
I was hard put to stop Olympe jumpin’ out at them,” said Hagrid, the
corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard. “She was rarin’ ter attack
’em.  .  .  . She’s somethin’ when she’s roused, Olympe.  .  .  . Fiery, yeh
know . . . ’spect it’s the French in her . . .”

Hagrid gazed misty-eyed into the fire. Harry allowed him thirty seconds’
reminiscence before clearing his throat loudly.
“So what happened? Did you ever get near any of the other giants?”
“What? Oh . . . oh yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night after Karkus
was killed, we crept outta the cave we’d bin hidin’ in and headed back
down inter the gully, keepin’ our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. Got
inside a few o’ the caves, no go — then, in abou’ the sixth one, we found
three giants hidin’.”
“Cave must’ve been cramped,” said Ron.
“Wasn’ room ter swing a kneazle,” said Hagrid.
“Didn’t they attack you when they saw you?” asked Hermione.
“Probably woulda done if they’d bin in any condition,” said Hagrid, “but
they was badly hurt, all three o’ them. Golgomath’s lot had beaten ’em
unconscious; they’d woken up an’ crawled inter the nearest shelter they
could find. Anyway, one o’ them had a bit of English an’ ’e translated fer
the others, an’ what we had ter say didn’ seem ter go down too badly. So we
kep’ goin’ back, visitin’ the wounded.  .  .  . I reckon we had abou’ six or
seven o’ them convinced at one poin’.”

“Six or seven?” said Ron eagerly. “Well that’s not bad — are they going
to come over here and start fighting You-Know-Who with us?”
But Hermione said, “What do you mean ‘at one point,’ Hagrid?”
Hagrid looked at her sadly.
“Golgomath’s lot raided the caves. The ones tha’ survived didn’ wan’ no
more ter to do with us after that.”
“So  .  .  . so there aren’t any giants coming?” said Ron, looking
disappointed.

“Nope,” said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his steak
again and applied the cooler side to his face, “but we did wha’ we meant ter
do, we gave ’em Dumbledore’s message an’ some o’ them heard it an’ I
’spect some o’ them’ll remember it. Jus’ maybe, them that don’ want ter
stay around Golgomath’ll move outta the mountains, an’ there’s gotta be a
chance they’ll remember Dumbledore’s friendly to ’em.  .  .  . Could be
they’ll come . . .”
Snow was filling up the window now. Harry became aware that the knees
of his robes were soaked through; Fang was drooling with his head in
Harry’s lap.
“Hagrid?” said Hermione quietly after a while.
“Mmm?”
“Did you  .  .  . was there any sign of  .  .  . did you hear anything about
your . . . your . . . mother while you were there?”
Hagrid’s unobscured eye rested upon her, and Hermione looked rather
scared.

“I’m sorry . . . I . . . forget it —”
“Dead,” Hagrid grunted. “Died years ago. They told me.”
“Oh . . . I’m . . . I’m really sorry,” said Hermione in a very small voice.
Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders. “No need,” he said shortly.
“Can’ remember her much. Wasn’ a great mother.”
They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously at Harry and Ron,
plainly wanting them to speak.
“But you still haven’t explained how you got in this state, Hagrid,” Ron
said, gesturing toward Hagrid’s bloodstained face.
“Or why you’re back so late,” said Harry. “Sirius says Madame Maxime
got back ages ago —”

“Who attacked you?” said Ron.
“I haven’ bin attacked!” said Hagrid emphatically. “I —”
But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden outbreak of rapping
on the door. Hermione gasped; her mug slipped through her fingers and
smashed on the floor; Fang yelped. All four of them stared at the window
beside the doorway. The shadow of somebody small and squat rippled
across the thin curtain.
“It’s her!” Ron whispered.
“Get under here!” Harry said quickly; seizing the Invisibility Cloak he
whirled it over himself and Hermione while Ron tore around the table and
dived beneath the Cloak as well. Huddled together they backed away into a
corner. Fang was barking madly at the door. Hagrid looked thoroughly
confused.

“Hagrid, hide our mugs!”
Hagrid seized Harry’s and Ron’s mugs and shoved them under the
cushion in Fang’s basket. Fang was now leaping up at the door; Hagrid
pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it open.
Professor Umbridge was standing in the doorway wearing her green
tweed cloak and a matching hat with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned back
so as to see Hagrid’s face; she barely reached his navel.
“So,” she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to somebody deaf.
“You’re Hagrid, are you?”
Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the room, her bulging
eyes rolling in every direction.
“Get away,” she snapped, waving her handbag at Fang, who had bounded
up to her and was attempting to lick her face.
“Er — I don’ want ter be rude,” said Hagrid, staring at her, “but who the
ruddy hell are you?”

“My name is Dolores Umbridge.”
Her eyes were sweeping the cabin. Twice they stared directly into the
corner where Harry stood, sandwiched between Ron and Hermione.
“Dolores Umbridge?” Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused. “I
thought you were one o’ them Ministry — don’ you work with Fudge?”
“I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes,” said Umbridge, now
pacing around the cabin, taking in every tiny detail within, from the
haversack against the wall to the abandoned traveling cloak. “I am now the
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher —”
“Tha’s brave of yeh,” said Hagrid, “there’s not many’d take tha’ job
anymore —”

“— and Hogwarts High Inquisitor,” said Umbridge, giving no sign that
she had heard him.
“Wha’s that?” said Hagrid, frowning.
“Precisely what I was going to ask,” said Umbridge, pointing at the
broken shards of china on the floor that had been Hermione’s mug.
“Oh,” said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance toward the corner where
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood hidden, “oh, tha’ was . . . was Fang. He
broke a mug. So I had ter use this one instead.”
Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been drinking, one hand
still clamped over the dragon steak pressed to his eye. Umbridge stood
facing him now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead of the
cabin’s.

“I heard voices,” she said quietly.
“I was talkin’ ter Fang,” said Hagrid stoutly.
“And was he talking back to you?”
“Well . . . in a manner o’ speakin’,” said Hagrid, looking uncomfortable.
“I sometimes say Fang’s near enough human —”
“There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the castle
doors to your cabin,” said Umbridge sleekly.
Hermione gasped; Harry clapped a hand over her mouth. Luckily, Fang
was sniffing loudly around the hem of Professor Umbridge’s robes, and she
did not appear to have heard.

“Well, I on’y jus’ got back,” said Hagrid, waving an enormous hand at
the haversack. “Maybe someone came ter call earlier an’ I missed ’em.”
“There are no footsteps leading away from your cabin door.”
“Well I  .  .  . I don’ know why that’d be  .  .  .” said Hagrid, tugging
nervously at his beard and again glancing toward the corner where Harry,
Ron, and Hermione stood, as though asking for help. “Erm . . .”
Umbridge wheeled around and strode the length of the cabin, looking
around carefully. She bent and peered under the bed. She opened Hagrid’s
cupboards. She passed within two inches of where Harry, Ron, and
Hermione stood pressed against the wall; Harry actually pulled in his
stomach as she walked by. After looking carefully inside the enormous
cauldron Hagrid used for cooking she wheeled around again and said,
“What has happened to you? How did you sustain those injuries?”
Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face, which in Harry’s
opinion was a mistake, because the black-and-purple bruising all around his
eye was now clearly visible, not to mention the large amount of fresh and
congealed blood on his face. “Oh, I . . . had a bit of an accident,” he said
lamely.

“What sort of accident?”
“I-I tripped.”
“You tripped,” she repeated coolly.
“Yeah, tha’s right. Over . . . over a friend’s broomstick. I don’ fly, meself.
Well, look at the size o’ me, I don’ reckon there’s a broomstick that’d hold
me. Friend o’ mine breeds Abraxan horses, I dunno if you’ve ever seen
’em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, I’ve had a bit of a ride on one o’ them
an’ it was —”
“Where have you been?” asked Umbridge, cutting coolly through
Hagrid’s babbling.
“Where’ve I . . . ?”

“Been, yes,” she said. “Term started more than two months ago. Another
teacher has had to cover your classes. None of your colleagues has been
able to give me any information as to your whereabouts. You left no
address. Where have you been?”
There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with his newly
uncovered eye. Harry could almost hear his brain working furiously.
“I — I’ve been away for me health,” he said.
“For your health,” said Umbridge. Her eyes traveled over Hagrid’s
discolored and swollen face; dragon blood dripped gently onto his waistcoat
in the silence. “I see.”
“Yeah,” said Hagrid, “bit o’ — o’ fresh air, yeh know —”
“Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to come by,” said
Umbridge sweetly. The small patch of Hagrid’s face that was not black or
purple flushed.

“Well — change o’ scene, yeh know —”
“Mountain scenery?” said Umbridge swiftly.
She knows, Harry thought desperately.
“Mountains?” Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. “Nope, South of
France fer me. Bit o’ sun an’ . . . an’ sea.”
“Really?” said Umbridge. “You don’t have much of a tan.”
“Yeah . . . well . . . sensitive skin,” said Hagrid, attempting an ingratiating
smile. Harry noticed that two of his teeth had been knocked out. Umbridge
looked at him coldly; his smile faltered. Then she hoisted her handbag a
little higher into the crook of her arm and said, “I shall, of course, be
informing the Minister of your late return.”
“Righ’,” said Hagrid, nodding.

“You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortunate but
necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we shall meet
again soon enough.”
She turned sharply and marched back to the door.
“You’re inspectin’ us?” Hagrid echoed blankly, looking after her.
“Oh yes,” said Umbridge softly, looking back at him with her hand on the
door handle. “The Ministry is determined to weed out unsatisfactory
teachers, Hagrid. Good night.”
She left, closing the door behind her with a snap. Harry made to pull off
the Invisibility Cloak but Hermione seized his wrist.
“Not yet,” she breathed in his ear. “She might not be gone yet.”
Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way; he stumped across the room
and pulled back the curtain an inch or so.
“She’s goin’ back ter the castle,” he said in a low voice. “Blimey  .  .  .
inspectin’ people, is she?”
“Yeah,” said Harry, pulling the Cloak off. “Trelawney’s on probation
already . . .”

“Um  .  .  . what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class,
Hagrid?” asked Hermione.
“Oh, don’ you worry abou’ that, I’ve got a great load o’ lessons
planned,” said Hagrid enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak from
the table and slapping it over his eye again. “I’ve bin keepin’ a couple o’
creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you wait, they’re somethin’ really
special.”
“Erm . . . special in what way?” asked Hermione tentatively.
“I’m not sayin’,” said Hagrid happily. “I don’ want ter spoil the surprise.”
“Look, Hagrid,” said Hermione urgently, dropping all pretense,
“Professor Umbridge won’t be at all happy if you bring anything to class
that’s too dangerous —”
“Dangerous?” said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. “Don’ be silly, I
wouldn’ give yeh anythin’ dangerous! I mean, all righ’, they can look after
themselves —”

“Hagrid, you’ve got to pass Umbridge’s inspection, and to do that it
would really be better if she saw you teaching us how to look after
porlocks, how to tell the difference between knarls and hedgehogs, stuff
like that!” said Hermione earnestly.
“But tha’s not very interestin’, Hermione,” said Hagrid. “The stuff I’ve
got’s much more impressive, I’ve bin bringin’ ’em on fer years, I reckon
I’ve got the on’y domestic herd in Britain —”
“Hagrid . . . please . . .” said Hermione, a note of real desperation in her
voice. “Umbridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of teachers she thinks
are too close to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us something dull that’s
bound to come up in our O.W.L . . .”

But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a one-eyed look of longing
toward the vast bed in the corner.
“Lis’en, it’s bin a long day an’ it’s late,” he said, patting Hermione gently
on the shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud.
“Oh — sorry —” He pulled her back up by the neck of her robes. “Look,
don’ you go worryin’ abou’ me, I promise yeh I’ve got really good stuff
planned fer yer lessons now I’m back. . . . Now you lot had better get back
up to the castle, an’ don’ forget ter wipe yer footprints out behind yeh!”
“I dunno if you got through to him,” said Ron a short while later when,
having checked that the coast was clear, they walked back up to the castle
through the thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them due to the
Obliteration Charm Hermione was performing as they went.
“Then I’ll go back again tomorrow,” said Hermione determinedly. “I’ll
plan his lessons for him if I have to. I don’t care if she throws out
Trelawney but she’s not taking Hagrid!”


CHAPTER ONE

THE BOY WHO LIVED

Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say
that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last
people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious,
because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.

Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made
drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did
have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and had
nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she
spent so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the
neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in their
opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.

The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and
their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it. They didn't
think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs.
Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years;
in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn't have a sister, because her
sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it was
possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would
say if the Potters arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the
Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy
was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want
Dudley mixing with a child like that.

When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story
starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to suggest that
strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the
country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for
work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming
Dudley into his high chair.

None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.

At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs.
Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but missed,
because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at the
walls. "Little tyke," chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got
into his car and backed out of number four's drive.

It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of
something peculiar -- a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr. Dursley
didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around to
look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet
Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight. What could he have been thinking
of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and
stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the
corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now
reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn't read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake and
put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of
nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.

But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something
else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn't help
noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people
about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in
funny clothes -- the getups you saw on young people! He supposed this
was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering
wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite
close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, that man
had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The
nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting for something...
yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr.
Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.

Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the
ninth floor. If he hadn't, he might have found it harder to concentrate
on drills that morning. He didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broad
daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed
open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never
seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly
normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made
several important telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a
very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he'd stretch his legs
and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.

He'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of
them next to the baker's. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn't
know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whispering
excitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collecting tin. It was on
his way back past them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he
caught a few words of what they were saying.

"The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their son, Harry"

Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the
whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better
of it.

He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his
secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost
finished dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He put the
receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking... no, he was
being stupid. Potter wasn't such an unusual name. He was sure there were
lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think
of it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry. He'd never even
seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point
in worrying Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her
sister. He didn't blame her -- if he'd had a sister like that... but all
the same, those people in cloaks...

He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon and
when he left the building at five o'clock, he was still so worried that
he walked straight into someone just outside the door.

"Sorry," he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It
was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man was wearing a
violet cloak. He didn't seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the
ground. On the contrary, his face split into a wide smile and he said in
a squeaky voice that made passersby stare, "Don't be sorry, my dear sir,
for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at
last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy,
happy day!"

And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and walked off.

Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a complete
stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle, whatever that
was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set off for home, hoping
he was imagining things, which he had never hoped before, because he
didn't approve of imagination.

As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw --
and it didn't improve his mood -- was the tabby cat he'd spotted that
morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the
same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.

"Shoo!" said Mr. Dursley loudly. The cat didn't move. It just gave him a
stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying
to pull himself together, he let himself into the house. He was still
determined not to mention anything to his wife.

Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all
about Mrs. Next Door's problems with her daughter and how Dudley had
learned a new word ("Won't!"). Mr. Dursley tried to act normally. When
Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to
catch the last report on the evening news:

"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the nation's
owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally
hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been
hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direction since
sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenly
changed their sleeping pattern." The newscaster allowed himself a grin.
"Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffin with the weather. Going
to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?"

"Well, Ted," said the weatherman, "I don't know about that, but it's not
only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as
Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead
of the rain I promised yesterday, they've had a downpour of shooting
stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating Bonfire Night early -- it's
not until next week, folks! But I can promise a wet night tonight."

Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over Britain?
Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all over the place?
And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...

Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of tea. It was
no good. He'd have to say something to her. He cleared his throat
nervously. "Er -- Petunia, dear -- you haven't heard from your sister
lately, have you?"

As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and angry. After all,
they normally pretended she didn't have a sister.

"No," she said sharply. "Why?"

"Funny stuff on the news," Mr. Dursley mumbled. "Owls... shooting
stars... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today..."

"So?" snapped Mrs. Dursley.

"Well, I just thought... maybe... it was something to do with... you
know... her crowd."

Mrs. Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr. Dursley wondered
whether he dared tell her he'd heard the name "Potter." He decided he
didn't dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could, "Their son --
he'd be about Dudley's age now, wouldn't he?"

"I suppose so," said Mrs. Dursley stiffly.

"What's his name again? Howard, isn't it?"

"Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me."

"Oh, yes," said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. "Yes, I quite
agree."

He didn't say another word on the subject as they went upstairs to bed.
While Mrs. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr. Dursley crept to the bedroom
window and peered down into the front garden. The cat was still there.
It was staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting for
something.

Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the
Potters? If it did... if it got out that they were related to a pair of
-- well, he didn't think he could bear it.

The Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep quickly but Mr.
Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last, comforting
thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters were
involved, there was no reason for them to come near him and Mrs.
Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and Petunia thought about
them and their kind.... He couldn't see how he and Petunia could get
mixed up in anything that might be going on -- he yawned and turned over
-- it couldn't affect them....

How very wrong he was.

Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the cat
on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as
still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far corner of
Privet Drive. It didn't so much as quiver when a car door slammed on the
next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In fact, it was nearly
midnight before the cat moved at all.

A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so
suddenly and silently you'd have thought he'd just popped out of the
ground. The cat's tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.

Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He was tall,
thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and beard, which
were both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was wearing long robes,
a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots.
His blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moon
spectacles and his nose was very long and crooked, as though it had been
broken at least twice. This man's name was Albus Dumbledore.

Albus Dumbledore didn't seem to realize that he had just arrived in a
street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome. He was
busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. But he did seem to
realize he was being watched, because he looked up suddenly at the cat,
which was still staring at him from the other end of the street. For
some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and
muttered, "I should have known."

He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It seemed to be a
silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it up in the air, and
clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. He
clicked it again -- the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times
he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights left on the whole street
were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat
watching him. If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed
Mrs. Dursley, they wouldn't be able to see anything that was happening
down on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his
cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat down
on the wall next to the cat. He didn't look at it, but after a moment he
spoke to it.

"Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall."

He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was smiling
at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exactly
the shape of the markings the cat had had around its eyes. She, too, was
wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair was drawn into a tight
bun. She looked distinctly ruffled.

"How did you know it was me?" she asked.

"My dear Professor, I 've never seen a cat sit so stiffly."

"You'd be stiff if you'd been sitting on a brick wall all day," said
Professor McGonagall.

"All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a
dozen feasts and parties on my way here."

Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.

"Oh yes, everyone's celebrating, all right," she said impatiently.
"You'd think they'd be a bit more careful, but no -- even the Muggles
have noticed something's going on. It was on their news." She jerked her
head back at the Dursleys' dark living-room window. "I heard it. Flocks
of owls... shooting stars.... Well, they're not completely stupid. They
were bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent -- I'll bet
that was Dedalus Diggle. He never had much sense."

"You can't blame them," said Dumbledore gently. "We've had precious
little to celebrate for eleven years."

"I know that," said Professor McGonagall irritably. "But that's no
reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on
the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes,
swapping rumors."

She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore here, as though hoping
he was going to tell her something, but he didn't, so she went on. "A
fine thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to have
disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose he
really has gone, Dumbledore?"

"It certainly seems so," said Dumbledore. "We have much to be thankful
for. Would you care for a lemon drop?"

"A what?"

"A lemon drop. They're a kind of Muggle sweet I'm rather fond of"

"No, thank you," said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though she didn't
think this was the moment for lemon drops. "As I say, even if
You-Know-Who has gone -"

"My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call him
by his name? All this 'You- Know-Who' nonsense -- for eleven years I
have been trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name:
Voldemort." Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who was
unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. "It all gets so
confusing if we keep saying 'You-Know-Who.' I have never seen any reason
to be frightened of saying Voldemort's name.

"I know you haven 't, said Professor McGonagall, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. "But you're different. Everyone knows you're
the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of."

"You flatter me," said Dumbledore calmly. "Voldemort had powers I will
never have."

"Only because you're too -- well -- noble to use them."

"It's lucky it's dark. I haven't blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey
told me she liked my new earmuffs."

Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dumbledore and said, "The owls
are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what
everyone's saying? About why he's disappeared? About what finally
stopped him?"

It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she was most
anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting on a cold, hard
wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she fixed
Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as she did now. It was plain that
whatever "everyone" was saying, she was not going to believe it until
Dumbledore told her it was true. Dumbledore, however, was choosing
another lemon drop and did not answer.

"What they're saying," she pressed on, "is that last night Voldemort
turned up in Godric's Hollow. He went to find the Potters. The rumor is
that Lily and James Potter are -- are -- that they're -- dead. "

Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.

"Lily and James... I can't believe it... I didn't want to believe it...
Oh, Albus..."

Dumbledore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. "I know... I
know..." he said heavily.

Professor McGonagall's voice trembled as she went on. "That's not all.
They're saying he tried to kill the Potter's son, Harry. But -- he
couldn't. He couldn't kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how,
but they're saying that when he couldn't kill Harry Potter, Voldemort's
power somehow broke -- and that's why he's gone.

Dumbledore nodded glumly.

"It's -- it's true?" faltered Professor McGonagall. "After all he's
done... all the people he's killed... he couldn't kill a little boy?
It's just astounding... of all the things to stop him... but how in the
name of heaven did Harry survive?"

"We can only guess," said Dumbledore. "We may never know."

Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at her
eyes beneath her spectacles. Dumbledore gave a great sniff as he took a
golden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch.
It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving
around the edge. It must have made sense to Dumbledore, though, because
he put it back in his pocket and said, "Hagrid's late. I suppose it was
he who told you I'd be here, by the way?"

"Yes," said Professor McGonagall. "And I don't suppose you're going to
tell me why you're here, of all places?"

"I've come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They're the only family
he has left now."

"You don't mean -- you can't mean the people who live here?" cried
Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at number four.
"Dumbledore -- you can't. I've been watching them all day. You couldn't
find two people who are less like us. And they've got this son -- I saw
him kicking his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets.
Harry Potter come and live here!"

"It's the best place for him," said Dumbledore firmly. "His aunt and
uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he's older. I've
written them a letter."

"A letter?" repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on
the wall. "Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain all this in a
letter? These people will never understand him! He'll be famous -- a
legend -- I wouldn't be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter day
in the future -- there will be books written about Harry -- every child
in our world will know his name!"

"Exactly," said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his
half-moon glasses. "It would be enough to turn any boy's head. Famous
before he can walk and talk! Famous for something he won't even
remember! CarA you see how much better off he'll be, growing up away
from all that until he's ready to take it?"

Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind, swallowed, and
then said, "Yes -- yes, you're right, of course. But how is the boy
getting here, Dumbledore?" She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she
thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.

"Hagrid's bringing him."

"You think it -- wise -- to trust Hagrid with something as important as
this?"

I would trust Hagrid with my life," said Dumbledore.

"I'm not saying his heart isn't in the right place," said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, "but you can't pretend he's not careless. He does
tend to -- what was that?"

A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew
steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a
headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky -- and
a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of
them.

If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride
it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times
as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild - long
tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his face, he had hands
the size of trash can lids, and his feet in their leather boots were
like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms he was holding a bundle
of blankets.

"Hagrid," said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. "At last. And where did
you get that motorcycle?"

"Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sit," said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. "Young Sirius Black lent it to
me. I've got him, sir."

"No problems, were there?"

"No, sir -- house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right
before the Muggles started swarmin' around. He fell asleep as we was
flyin' over Bristol."

Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the bundle of
blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a
tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously
shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.

"Is that where -?" whispered Professor McGonagall.

"Yes," said Dumbledore. "He'll have that scar forever."

"Couldn't you do something about it, Dumbledore?"

"Even if I could, I wouldn't. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself
above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well
-- give him here, Hagrid -- we'd better get this over with."

Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the Dursleys' house.

"Could I -- could I say good-bye to him, sir?" asked Hagrid. He bent his
great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must have been a very
scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl like a
wounded dog.

"Shhh!" hissed Professor McGonagall, "you'll wake the Muggles!"

"S-s-sorry," sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and
burying his face in it. "But I c-c-can't stand it -- Lily an' James dead
-- an' poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles -"

"Yes, yes, it's all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or
we'll be found," Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid gingerly
on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to
the front door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter out
of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry's blankets, and then came back to
the other two. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked at
the little bundle; Hagrid's shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall
blinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone from
Dumbledore's eyes seemed to have gone out.

"Well," said Dumbledore finally, "that's that. We've no business staying
here. We may as well go and join the celebrations."

"Yeah," said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, "I'll be takin' Sirius his
bike back. G'night, Professor McGonagall -- Professor Dumbledore, sir."

Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung himself
onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a roar it rose
into the air and off into the night.

"I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall," said Dumbledore,
nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose in reply.

Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the corner he
stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it once, and
twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet
Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a tabby cat slinking
around the corner at the other end of the street. He could just see the
bundle of blankets on the step of number four.

"Good luck, Harry," he murmured. He turned on his heel and with a swish
of his cloak, he was gone.

A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent and
tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter beside
him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he was
famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few hours' time by Mrs.
Dursley's scream as she opened the front door to put out the milk
bottles, nor that he would spend the next few weeks being prodded and
pinched by his cousin Dudley... He couldn't know that at this very
moment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up
their glasses and saying in hushed voices: "To Harry Potter -- the boy
who lived!"


CHAPTER TWO

THE VANISHING GLASS

Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find
their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly changed at
all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass
number four on the Dursleys' front door; it crept into their living
room, which was almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when
Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the
photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed.
Ten years ago, there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a
large pink beach ball wearing different-colored bonnets -- but Dudley
Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a
computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother.
The room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too.

Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for
long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made
the first noise of the day.

"Up! Get up! Now!"

Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.

"Up!" she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his
back and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a
good one. There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny
feeling he'd had the same dream before.

His aunt was back outside the door.

"Are you up yet?" she demanded.

"Nearly," said Harry.

"Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don't you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy's birthday."

Harry groaned.

"What did you say?" his aunt snapped through the door.

"Nothing, nothing..."

Dudley's birthday -- how could he have forgotten? Harry got slowly out
of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and,
after pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to
spiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and
that was where he slept.

When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table
was almost hidden beneath all Dudley's birthday presents. It looked as
though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention the
second television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted a
racing bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated
exercise -- unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley's
favorite punching bag was Harry, but he couldn't often catch him. Harry
didn't look it, but he was very fast.

Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes
of Dudley's, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry
had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. He
wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of
all the times Dudley had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry
liked about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that
was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as he could
remember, and the first question he could ever remember asking his Aunt
Petunia was how he had gotten it.

"In the car crash when your parents died," she had said. "And don't ask
questions."

Don't ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.

Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.

"Comb your hair!" he barked, by way of a morning greeting.

About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper and
shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the boys in his class put

together, but it made no difference, his hair simply grew that way --
all over the place.

Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face,
not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay
smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley
looked like a baby angel -- Harry often said that Dudley looked like a
pig in a wig.

Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult
as there wasn't much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents.
His face fell.

"Thirty-six," he said, looking up at his mother and father. "That's two
less than last year."

"Darling, you haven't counted Auntie Marge's present, see, it's here
under this big one from Mommy and Daddy."

"All right, thirty-seven then," said Dudley, going red in the face.
Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing down
his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.

Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly,
"And we'll buy you another two presents while we're out today. How's
that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''

Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he said
slowly, "So I'll have thirty ... thirty..."

"Thirty-nine, sweetums," said Aunt Petunia.

"Oh." Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel. "All right
then."

Uncle Vernon chuckled. "Little tyke wants his money's worth, just like
his father. 'Atta boy, Dudley!" He ruffled Dudley's hair.

At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to answer it
while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap the racing bike, a
video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen new computer games, and
a VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia
came back from the telephone looking both angry and worried.

"Bad news, Vernon," she said. "Mrs. Figg's broken her leg. She can't
take him." She jerked her head in Harry's direction.

Dudley's mouth fell open in horror, but Harry's heart gave a leap. Every
year on Dudley's birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for the
day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every
year, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a mad old lady who lived two
streets away. Harry hated it there. The whole house smelled of cabbage
and Mrs. Figg made him look at photographs of all the cats she'd ever
owned.

"Now what?" said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as though he'd
planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Figg had
broken her leg, but it wasn't easy when he reminded himself it would be
a whole year before he had to look at Tibbles, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and
Tufty again.

"We could phone Marge," Uncle Vernon suggested.

"Don't be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy."

The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he wasn't
there -- or rather, as though he was something very nasty that couldn't
understand them, like a slug.

"What about what's-her-name, your friend -- Yvonne?"

"On vacation in Majorca," snapped Aunt Petunia.

"You could just leave me here," Harry put in hopefully (he'd be able to
watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe even have a go
on Dudley's computer).

Aunt Petunia looked as though she'd just swallowed a lemon.

"And come back and find the house in ruins?" she snarled.

"I won't blow up the house," said Harry, but they weren't listening.

"I suppose we could take him to the zoo," said Aunt Petunia slowly, "...
and leave him in the car...."

"That car's new, he's not sitting in it alone...."

Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn't really crying -- it had
been years since he'd really cried -- but he knew that if he screwed up
his face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.

"Dinky Duddydums, don't cry, Mummy won't let him spoil your special
day!" she cried, flinging her arms around him.

"I... don't... want... him... t-t-to come!" Dudley yelled between huge,
pretend sobs. "He always sp- spoils everything!" He shot Harry a nasty
grin through the gap in his mother's arms.

Just then, the doorbell rang -- "Oh, good Lord, they're here!" said Aunt
Petunia frantically -- and a moment later, Dudley's best friend, Piers
Polkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy with a face
like a rat. He was usually the one who held people's arms behind their
backs while Dudley hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.

Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn't believe his luck, was sitting in
the back of the Dursleys' car with Piers and Dudley, on the way to the
zoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn't been able
to think of anything else to do with him, but before they'd left, Uncle
Vernon had taken Harry aside.

"I'm warning you," he had said, putting his large purple face right up
close to Harry's, "I'm warning you now, boy -- any funny business,
anything at all -- and you'll be in that cupboard from now until
Christmas."

"I'm not going to do anything," said Harry, "honestly..

But Uncle Vernon didn't believe him. No one ever did.

The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry and it was
just no good telling the Dursleys he didn't make them happen.

Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking
as though he hadn't been at all, had taken a pair of kitchen scissors
and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except for his bangs, which
she left "to hide that horrible scar." Dudley had laughed himself silly
at Harry, who spent a sleepless night imagining school the next day,
where he was already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped glasses.
Next morning, however, he had gotten up to find his hair exactly as it
had been before Aunt Petunia had sheared it off He had been given a week
in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to explain that he
couldn't explain how it had grown back so quickly.

Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a revolting
old sweater of Dudley's (brown with orange puff balls) -- The harder she
tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until
finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but certainly wouldn't fit
Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to
his great relief, Harry wasn't punished.

On the other hand, he'd gotten into terrible trouble for being found on
the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley's gang had been chasing him as
usual when, as much to Harry's surprise as anyone else's, there he was
sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had received a very angry letter
from Harry's headmistress telling them Harry had been climbing school
buildings. But all he'd tried to do (as he shouted at Uncle Vernon
through the locked door of his cupboard) was jump behind the big trash
cans outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the wind must have
caught him in mid- jump.

But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with
Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn't school,
his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg's cabbage-smelling living room.

While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He liked to
complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council, Harry, the
bank, and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning,
it was motorcycles.

"... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums," he said, as a
motorcycle overtook them.

I had a dream about a motorcycle," said Harry, remembering suddenly. "It
was flying."

Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned right
around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic beet
with a mustache: "MOTORCYCLES DON'T FLY!"

Dudley and Piers sniggered.

I know they don't," said Harry. "It was only a dream."

But he wished he hadn't said anything. If there was one thing the
Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking
about anything acting in a way it shouldn't, no matter if it was in a
dream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think he might get dangerous
ideas.

It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The
Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the
entrance and then, because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry
what he wanted before they could hurry him away, they bought him a cheap
lemon ice pop. It wasn't bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they
watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked remarkably like Dudley,
except that it wasn't blond.

Harry had the best morning he'd had in a long time. He was careful to
walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who
were starting to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn't fall
back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo
restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker
glory didn't have enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him
another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.

Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to
last.

After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in
there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts
of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick,
man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the
place. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle Vernon's car
and crushed it into a trash can -- but at the moment it didn't look in
the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.

Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the
glistening brown coils.

"Make it move," he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the
glass, but the snake didn't budge.

"Do it again," Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly
with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.

"This is boring," Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.

Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He
wouldn't have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself -- no
company except stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying
to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a
bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door
to wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house.

The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised
its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry's.

It winked.

Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was
watching. They weren't. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.

The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised
its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:

"I get that all the time.

"I know," Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn't sure the
snake could hear him. "It must be really annoying."

The snake nodded vigorously.

"Where do you come from, anyway?" Harry asked.

The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry
peered at it.

Boa Constrictor, Brazil.

"Was it nice there?"

The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on:
This specimen was bred in the zoo. "Oh, I see -- so you've never been to
Brazil?"

As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of
them jump.

"DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON'T BELIEVE
WHAT IT'S DOING!"

Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.

"Out of the way, you," he said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by
surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened
so fast no one saw how it happened -- one second, Piers and Dudley were
leaning right up close to the glass, the next, they had leapt back with
howls of horror.

Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor's tank
had vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering
out onto the floor. People throughout the reptile house screamed and
started running for the exits.

As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low,
hissing voice said, "Brazil, here I come.... Thanksss, amigo."

The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.

"But the glass," he kept saying, "where did the glass go?"

The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea
while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only
gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn't done anything except
snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were
all back in Uncle Vernon's car, Dudley was telling them how it had
nearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least, was Piers
calming down enough to say, "Harry was talking to it, weren't you,
Harry?"

Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before
starting on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. He managed to
say, "Go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals," before he collapsed into a
chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a large brandy.

Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch. He
didn't know what time it was and he couldn't be sure the Dursleys were
asleep yet. Until they were, he couldn't risk sneaking to the kitchen
for some food.

He'd lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable years, as
long as he could remember, ever since he'd been a baby and his parents
had died in that car crash. He couldn't remember being in the car when
his parents had died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long
hours in his cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a blinding
flash of green light and a burn- ing pain on his forehead. This, he
supposed, was the crash, though he couldn't imagine where all the green
light came from. He couldn't remember his parents at all. His aunt and
uncle never spoke about them, and of course he was forbidden to ask
questions. There were no photographs of them in the house.

When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown
relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened; the
Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped)
that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers
they were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once
while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry
furiously if he knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the
shop without buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in
green had waved merrily at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very long
purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day and
then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all these
people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry tried to get a
closer look.

At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley's gang hated
that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and
nobody liked to disagree with Dudley's gang.


CHAPTER THREE

THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE

The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry his
longest-ever punishment. By the time he was allowed out of his cupboard
again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley had already broken his
new video camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first time
out on his racing bike, knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet
Drive on her crutches.

Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley's gang,
who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and
Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and
stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of them were all quite
happy to join in Dudley's favorite sport: Harry Hunting.

This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the house,
wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he
could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going off
to secondary school and, for the first time in his life, he wouldn't be
with Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at Uncle Vernon's old private
school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry, on the
other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the local public school. Dudley
thought this was very funny.

"They stuff people's heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,"
he told Harry. "Want to come upstairs and practice?"

"No, thanks," said Harry. "The poor toilet's never had anything as
horrible as your head down it -- it might be sick." Then he ran, before
Dudley could work out what he'd said.

One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy his Smeltings
uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. Figg's. Mrs. Figg wasn 't as bad as
usual. It turned out she'd broken her leg tripping over one of her cats,
and she didn't seem quite as fond of them as before. She let Harry watch
television and gave him a bit of chocolate cake that tasted as though
she'd had it for several years.

That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room for the family in
his brand-new uniform. Smeltings' boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange
knickerbockers, and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried
knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the teachers weren't
looking. This was supposed to be good training for later life.

As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernon said
gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst
into tears and said she couldn't believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins, he
looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn't trust himself to speak. He
thought two of his ribs might already have cracked from trying not to
laugh.

There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning when Harry
went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large metal tub in
the sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like
dirty rags swimming in gray water.

"What's this?" he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened as they always
did if he dared to ask a question.

"Your new school uniform," she said.

Harry looked in the bowl again.

"Oh," he said, "I didn't realize it had to be so wet."

"DotA be stupid," snapped Aunt Petunia. "I'm dyeing some of Dudley's old
things gray for you. It'll look just like everyone else's when I've
finished."

Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. He sat
down at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look
on his first day at Stonewall High -- like he was wearing bits of old
elephant skin, probably.

Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses because of the
smell from Harry's new uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which he carried everywhere,
on the table.

They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters on the
doormat.

"Get the mail, Dudley," said Uncle Vernon from behind his paper.

"Make Harry get it."

"Get the mail, Harry."

"Make Dudley get it."

"Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley."

Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Three things
lay on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon's sister Marge, who was
vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a
bill, and -- a letter for Harry.

Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant
elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him. Who
would? He had no friends, no other relatives -- he didn't belong to the
library, so he'd never even got rude notes asking for books back. Yet
here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there could be no mistake:

Mr. H. Potter

The Cupboard under the Stairs

4 Privet Drive

Little Whinging

Surrey

The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment, and the
address was written in emerald-green ink. There was no stamp.

Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw a purple wax
seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake
surrounding a large letter H.

"Hurry up, boy!" shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. "What are you
doing, checking for letter bombs?" He chuckled at his own joke.

Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. He handed
Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowly began to
open the yellow envelope.

Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over
the postcard.

"Marge's ill," he informed Aunt Petunia. "Ate a funny whelk. --."

"Dad!" said Dudley suddenly. "Dad, Harry's got something!"

Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which was written on the
same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of
his hand by Uncle Vernon.

"That's mine!" said Harry, trying to snatch it back.

"Who'd be writing to you?" sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the letter open
with one hand and glancing at it. His face went from red to green faster
than a set of traffic lights. And it didn't stop there. Within seconds
it was the grayish white of old porridge.

"P-P-Petunia!" he gasped.

Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held it
high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read the first
line. For a moment it looked as though she might faint. She clutched her
throat and made a choking noise.

"Vernon! Oh my goodness -- Vernon!"

They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry and
Dudley were still in the room. Dudley wasn't used to being ignored. He
gave his father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stick.

"I want to read that letter," he said loudly. want to read it," said
Harry furiously, "as it's mine."

"Get out, both of you," croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing the letter back
inside its envelope.

Harry didn't move.

I WANT MY LETTER!" he shouted.

"Let me see it!" demanded Dudley.

"OUT!" roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and Dudley by the
scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming the
kitchen door behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furious but
silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry,
his glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at
the crack between door and floor.

"Vernon," Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, "look at the
address -- how could they possibly know where he sleeps? You don't think
they're watching the house?"

"Watching -- spying -- might be following us," muttered Uncle Vernon
wildly.

"But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write back? Tell them we don't
want --"

Harry could see Uncle Vernon's shiny black shoes pacing up and down the
kitchen.

"No," he said finally. "No, we'll ignore it. If they don't get an
answer... Yes, that's best... we won't do anything....

"But --"

"I'm not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn't we swear when we took
him in we'd stamp out that dangerous nonsense?"

That evening when he got back from work, Uncle Vernon did something he'd
never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.

"Where's my letter?" said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had squeezed
through the door. "Who's writing to me?"

"No one. it was addressed to you by mistake," said Uncle Vernon shortly.
"I have burned it."

"It was not a mistake," said Harry angrily, "it had my cupboard on it."

"SILENCE!" yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell from the
ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced his face into a
smile, which looked quite painful.

"Er -- yes, Harry -- about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been
thinking... you're really getting a bit big for it... we think it might
be nice if you moved into Dudley's second bedroom.

"Why?" said Harry.

"Don't ask questions!" snapped his uncle. "Take this stuff upstairs,
now."

The Dursleys' house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon and Aunt
Petunia, one for visitors (usually Uncle Vernon's sister, Marge), one
where Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all the toys and things
that wouldn't fit into his first bedroom. It only took Harry one trip
upstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. He
sat down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here was
broken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working
tank Dudley had once driven over the next door neighbor's dog; in the
corner was Dudley's first-ever television set, which he'd put his foot
through when his favorite program had been canceled; there was a large
birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school
for a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent
because Dudley had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They
were the only things in the room that looked as though they'd never been
touched.

From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his mother, I don't
want him in there... I need that room... make him get out...."

Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he'd have given
anything to be up here. Today he'd rather be back in his cupboard with
that letter than up here without it.

Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley was in
shock. He'd screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick, been
sick on purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the
greenhouse roof, and he still didn't have his room back. Harry was
thinking about this time yesterday and bitterly wishing he'd opened the
letter in the hall. Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each
other darkly.

When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying to be nice
to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him banging things with
his Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, "There's
another one! 'Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive --'"

With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran down the
hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to wrestle Dudley to the
ground to get the letter from him, which was made difficult by the fact
that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernon around the neck from behind. After a
minute of confused fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the
Smelting stick, Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with
Harry's letter clutched in his hand.

"Go to your cupboard -- I mean, your bedroom," he wheezed at Harry.
"Dudley -- go -- just go."

Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had moved out
of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn't received his first
letter. Surely that meant they'd try again? And this time he'd make sure
they didn't fail. He had a plan.

The repaired alarm clock rang at six o'clock the next morning. Harry
turned it off quickly and dressed silently. He mustn't wake the
Dursleys. He stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights.

He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet Drive and
get the letters for number four first. His heart hammered as he crept
across the dark hall toward the front door --

Harry leapt into the air; he'd trodden on something big and squashy on
the doormat -- something alive!

Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized that the
big, squashy something had been his uncle's face. Uncle Vernon had been
lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, clearly making
sure that Harry didn't do exactly what he'd been trying to do. He
shouted at Harry for about half an hour and then told him to go and make
a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen and by the
time he got back, the mail had arrived, right into Uncle Vernon's lap.
Harry could see three letters addressed in green ink.

I want --" he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing the letters into
pieces before his eyes. Uncle Vernon didnt go to work that day. He
stayed at home and nailed up the mail slot.

"See," he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails, "if
they can't deliver them they'll just give up."

"I'm not sure that'll work, Vernon."

"Oh, these people's minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they're not
like you and me," said Uncle Vernon, trying to knock in a nail with the
piece of fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.

On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Harry. As they
couldn't go through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door,
slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the small
window in the downstairs bathroom.

Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, he got
out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and
back doors so no one could go out. He hummed "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"
as he worked, and jumped at small noises.

On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to
Harry found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each
of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt
Petunia through the living room window. While Uncle Vernon made furious
telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone
to complain to, Aunt Petunia shredded the letters in her food processor.

"Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?" Dudley asked Harry in
amazement.

On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table looking
tired and rather ill, but happy.

"No post on Sundays," he reminded them cheerfully as he spread marmalade
on his newspapers, "no damn letters today --"

Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and caught
him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty
letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Dursleys
ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one.

"Out! OUT!"

Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him into the hall.
When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with their arms over their
faces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters
still streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor.

"That does it," said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but pulling
great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. I want you all back
here in five minutes ready to leave. We're going away. Just pack some
clothes. No arguments!"

He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing that no one dared
argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the
boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway.
Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round the
head for holding them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and
computer in his sports bag.

They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn't dare ask where they
were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take a sharp turn and
drive in the opposite direction for a while. "Shake'em off... shake 'em
off," he would mutter whenever he did this.

They didn't stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley was
howling. He'd never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry, he'd
missed five television programs he'd wanted to see, and he'd never gone
so long without blowing up an alien on his computer.

Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy-looking hotel on the
outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room with twin beds
and damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayed awake, sitting on
the windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing cars and
wondering....

They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for
breakfast the next day. They had just finished when the owner of the
hotel came over to their table.

"'Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I got about an 'undred
of these at the front desk."

She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:

Mr. H. Potter

Room 17

Railview Hotel

Cokeworth

Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his hand out
of the way. The woman stared.

"I'll take them," said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and following
her from the dining room.

Wouldn't it be better just to go home, dear?" Aunt Petunia suggested
timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn't seem to hear her. Exactly
what he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into the
middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got back in
the car, and off they went again. The same thing happened in the middle
of a plowed field, halfway across a suspension bridge, and at the top of
a multilevel parking garage.

"Daddy's gone mad, hasn't he?" Dudley asked Aunt Petunia dully late that
afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, locked them all inside
the car, and disappeared.

It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dud ley
sniveled.

"It's Monday," he told his mother. "The Great Humberto's on tonight. I
want to stay somewhere with a television. "

Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday -- and you
could usually count on Dudley to know the days the week, because of
television -- then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry's eleventh birthday. Of
course, his birthdays were never exactly fun -- last year, the Dursleys
had given him a coat hanger and a pair of Uncle Vernon's old socks.
Still, you weren't eleven every day.

Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long,
thin package and didn't answer Aunt Petunia when she asked what he'd
bought.

"Found the perfect place!" he said. "Come on! Everyone out!"

It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at what
looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was
the most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was
certain, there was no television in there.

"Storm forecast for tonight!" said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping his
hands together. "And this gentleman's kindly agreed to lend us his
boat!"

A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather
wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below
them.

"I've already got us some rations," said Uncle Vernon, "so all aboard!"

It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their
necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like
hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping and sliding,
led the way to the broken-down house.

The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind
whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was
damp and empty. There were only two rooms.

Uncle Vernon's rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four
bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked
and shriveled up.

"Could do with some of those letters now, eh?" he said cheerfully.

He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a chance
of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harry privately
agreed, though the thought didn't cheer him up at all.

As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the
high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce wind rattled the
filthy windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldy blankets in the second
room and made up a bed for Dudley on the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle
Vernon went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Harry was left to find
the softest bit of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest,
most ragged blanket.

The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went on. Harry
couldn't sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to get comfortable,
his stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley's snores were drowned by the
low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of
Dudley's watch, which was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat
wrist, told Harry he'd be eleven in ten minutes' time. He lay and
watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if the Dursleys would
remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now.

Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He hoped the
roof wasn't going to fall in, although he might be warmer if it did.
Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of
letters when they got back that he'd be able to steal one somehow.

Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rock like
that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny crunching noise? Was
the rock crumbling into the sea?

One minute to go and he'd be eleven. Thirty seconds... twenty ... ten...
nine -- maybe he'd wake Dudley up, just to annoy him -- three... two...
one...

BOOM.

The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at the
door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in.


CHAPTER FOUR

THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS

BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake. "Where's the cannon?" he
said stupidly.

There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon came skidding into the
room. He was holding a rifle in his hands -- now they knew what had been
in the long, thin package he had brought with them.

"Who's there?" he shouted. "I warn you -- I'm armed!"

There was a pause. Then --

SMASH!

The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and
with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.

A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost
completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled
beard, but you could make out his eyes, glinting like black beetles
under all the hair.

The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just
brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door, and fitted it
easily back into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a
little. He turned to look at them all.

"Couldn't make us a cup o' tea, could yeh? It's not been an easy
journey..."

He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.

"Budge up, yeh great lump," said the stranger.

Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was crouching,
terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.

"An' here's Harry!" said the giant.

Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and saw that the
beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.

"Las' time I saw you, you was only a baby," said the giant. "Yeh look a
lot like yet dad, but yeh've got yet mom's eyes."

Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.

I demand that you leave at once, sit!" he said. "You are breaking and
entering!"

"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune," said the giant; he reached over
the back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Uncle Vernon's hands, bent
it into a knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw it
into a corner of the room.

Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on.

"Anyway -- Harry," said the giant, turning his back on the Dursleys, "a
very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here -- I mighta sat on
it at some point, but it'll taste all right."

From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightly
squashed box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a
large, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written on it in
green icing.

Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but the words
got lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was, "Who are
you?"

The giant chuckled.

"True, I haven't introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper of Keys and
Grounds at Hogwarts."

He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry's whole arm.

"What about that tea then, eh?" he said, rubbing his hands together.
"I'd not say no ter summat stronger if yeh've got it, mind."

His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags in it and
he snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn't see what he
was doing but when he drew back a second later, there was a roaring fire
there. It filled the whole damp hut with flickering light and Harry felt
the warmth wash over him as though he'd sunk into a hot bath.

The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and
began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a
copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several
chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from
before starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and
smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while the giant was
working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt
sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted a little. Uncle Vernon said
sharply, "Don't touch anything he gives you, Dudley."

The giant chuckled darkly.

"Yet great puddin' of a son don' need fattenin' anymore, Dursley, don'
worry."

He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had never tasted
anything so wonderful, but he still couldn't take his eyes off the
giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said,
"I'm sorry, but I still don't really know who you are."

The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his
hand.

"Call me Hagrid," he said, "everyone does. An' like I told yeh, I'm
Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts -- yeh'll know all about Hogwarts, o' course.

"Er -- no," said Harry.

Hagrid looked shocked.

"Sorry," Harry said quickly.

"Sony?" barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, who shrank back
into the shadows. "It' s them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren't
gettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn't even know abou'
Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yet parents
learned it all?"

"All what?" asked Harry.

"ALL WHAT?" Hagrid thundered. "Now wait jus' one second!"

He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut.
The Dursleys were cowering against the wall.

"Do you mean ter tell me," he growled at the Dursleys, "that this boy --
this boy! -- knows nothin' abou' -- about ANYTHING?"

Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to school, after
all, and his marks weren't bad.

"I know some things," he said. "I can, you know, do math and stuff." But
Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, "About our world, I mean. Your
world. My world. Yer parents' world."

"What world?"

Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.

"DURSLEY!" he boomed.

Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded
like "Mimblewimble." Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.

"But yeh must know about yet mom and dad," he said. "I mean, they're
famous. You're famous."

"What? My -- my mom and dad weren't famous, were they?"

"Yeh don' know... yeh don' know..." Hagrid ran his fingers through his
hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.

"Yeh don' know what yeh are?" he said finally.

Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.

"Stop!" he commanded. "Stop right there, sit! I forbid you to tell the
boy anything!"

A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under the furious
look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his every syllable trembled
with rage.

"You never told him? Never told him what was in the letter Dumbledore
left fer him? I was there! I saw Dumbledore leave it, Dursley! An'
you've kept it from him all these years?"

"Kept what from me?" said Harry eagerly.

"STOP! I FORBID YOU!" yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.

Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.

"Ah, go boil yet heads, both of yeh," said Hagrid. "Harry -- yet a
wizard."

There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind
could be heard.

"-- a what?" gasped Harry.

"A wizard, o' course," said Hagrid, sitting back down on the sofa, which
groaned and sank even lower, "an' a thumpin' good'un, I'd say, once
yeh've been trained up a bit. With a mum an' dad like yours, what else
would yeh be? An' I reckon it's abou' time yeh read yer letter."

Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope,
addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock,
The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:

HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY

Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE

(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock, Supreme
Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards)

Dear Mr. Potter,

We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all
necessary books and equipment.

Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no later than July 31.
Yours sincerely,

Minerva McGonagall,

Deputy Headmistress

Questions exploded inside Harry's head like fireworks and he couldn't
decide which to ask first. After a few minutes he stammered, "What does
it mean, they await my owl?"

"Gallopin' Gorgons, that reminds me," said Hagrid, clapping a hand to
his forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse, and from yet
another pocket inside his overcoat he pulled an owl -- a real, live,
rather ruffled-looking owl -- a long quill, and a roll of parchment.
With his tongue between his teeth he scribbled a note that Harry could
read upside down:

Dear Professor Dumbledore,

Given Harry his letter.

Taking him to buy his things tomorrow.

Weather's horrible. Hope you're Well.

Hagrid

Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clamped it in its
beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm. Then he
came back and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the
telephone.

Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it quickly.

"Where was I?" said Hagrid, but at that moment, Uncle Vernon, still
ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight.

"He's not going," he said.

Hagrid grunted.

"I'd like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him," he said.

"A what?" said Harry, interested.

"A Muggle," said Hagrid, "it's what we call nonmagic folk like thern.
An' it's your bad luck you grew up in a family o' the biggest Muggles I
ever laid eyes on."

"We swore when we took him in we'd put a stop to that rubbish," said
Uncle Vernon, "swore we'd stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!"

"You knew?" said Harry. "You knew I'm a -- a wizard?"

"Knew!" shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. "Knew! Of course we knew! How
could you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh, she got a
letter just like that and disappeared off to that-that school-and came
home every vacation with her pockets full of frog spawn, turning teacups
into rats. I was the only one who saw her for what she was -- a freak!
But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Lily this and Lily that,
they were proud of having a witch in the family!"

She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed
she had been wanting to say all this for years.

"Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got married and
had you, and of course I knew you'd be just the same, just as strange,
just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please, she went and got
herself blown up and we got landed with you!"

Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his voice he said, "Blown
up? You told me they died in a car crash!"

"CAR CRASH!" roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that the Dursleys
scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash kill Lily an'
James Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potter not knowin' his
own story when every kid in our world knows his name!" "But why? What
happened?" Harry asked urgently.

The anger faded from Hagrid's face. He looked suddenly anxious.

"I never expected this," he said, in a low, worried voice. "I had no
idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin' hold of
yeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Harry, I don' know if I'm the right
person ter tell yeh -- but someone 3 s gotta -- yeh can't go off ter
Hogwarts not knowin'."

He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys.

"Well, it's best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh -- mind, I can't
tell yeh everythin', it's a great myst'ry, parts of it...."

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and then said, "It
begins, I suppose, with -- with a person called -- but it's incredible
yeh don't know his name, everyone in our world knows --"

"Who? "

"Well -- I don' like sayin' the name if I can help it. No one does."

"Why not?"

"Gulpin' gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey, this is
difficult. See, there was this wizard who went... bad. As bad as you
could go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was..."

Hagrid gulped, but no words came out.

"Could you write it down?" Harry suggested.

"Nah -can't spell it. All right -- Voldemort. " Hagrid shuddered. "Don'
make me say it again. Anyway, this -- this wizard, about twenty years
ago now, started lookin' fer followers. Got 'em, too -- some were
afraid, some just wanted a bit o' his power, 'cause he was gettin'
himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn't know who ter trust,
didn't dare get friendly with strange wizards or witches... terrible
things happened. He was takin' over. 'Course, some stood up to him --
an' he killed 'em. Horribly. One o' the only safe places left was
Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore's the only one You-Know-Who was afraid of.
Didn't dare try takin' the school, not jus' then, anyway.

"Now, yer mum an' dad were as good a witch an' wizard as I ever knew.
Head boy an' girl at Hogwarts in their day! Suppose the myst'ry is why
You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his side before... probably knew
they were too close ter Dumbledore ter want anythin' ter do with the
Dark Side.

"Maybe he thought he could persuade 'em... maybe he just wanted 'em
outta the way. All anyone knows is, he turned up in the village where
you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old.
He came ter yer house an' -- an' --"

Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchief and blew
his nose with a sound like a foghorn.

"Sorry," he said. "But it's that sad -- knew yer mum an' dad, an' nicer
people yeh couldn't find -- anyway..."

"You-Know-Who killed 'em. An' then -- an' this is the real myst'ry of
the thing -- he tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a clean job of
it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin' by then. But he couldn't
do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no
ordinary cut. That's what yeh get when a Powerful, evil curse touches
yeh -- took care of yer mum an' dad an' yer house, even -- but it didn't
work on you, an' that's why yer famous, Harry. No one ever lived after
he decided ter kill 'em, no one except you, an' he'd killed some o' the
best witches an' wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, the
Prewetts -- an' you was only a baby, an' you lived."

Something very painful was going on in Harry's mind. As Hagrid's story
came to a close, he saw again the blinding flash of green light, more
clearly than he had ever remembered it before -- and he remembered
something else, for the first time in his life: a high, cold, cruel
laugh.

Hagrid was watching him sadly.

"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore's orders. Brought
yeh ter this lot..."

"Load of old tosh," said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; he had almost
forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Uncle Vernon certainly seemed to
have got back his courage. He was glaring at Hagrid and his fists were
clenched.

"Now, you listen here, boy," he snarled, "I accept there's something
strange about you, probably nothing a good beating wouldn't have cured
-- and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, no
denying it, and the world's better off without them in my opinion --
asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types --
just what I expected, always knew they'd come to a sticky end --"

But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink
umbrella from inside his coat. Pointing this at Uncle Vernon like a
sword, he said, "I'm warning you, Dursley -I'm warning you -- one more
word... "

In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant,
Uncle Vernon's courage failed again; he flattened himself against the
wall and fell silent.

"That's better," said Hagrid, breathing heavily and sitting back down on
the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor.

Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them.

"But what happened to Vol--, sorry -- I mean, You-Know-Who?"

"Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night he tried ter
kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That's the biggest myst'ry, see...
he was gettin' more an' more powerful -- why'd he go?

"Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough
human left in him to die. Some say he's still out there, bidin' his
time, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on his side came back
ter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~ reckon they
could've done if he was comin' back.

"Most of us reckon he's still out there somewhere but lost his powers.
Too weak to carry on. 'Cause somethin' about you finished him, Harry.
There was somethin' goin' on that night he hadn't counted on -- I dunno
what it was, no one does -- but somethin' about you stumped him, all
right."

Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing in his eyes, but
Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had
been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How could he possibly be? He'd
spent his life being clouted by Dudley, and bullied by Aunt Petunia and
Uncle Vernon; if he was really a wizard, why hadn't they been turned
into warty toads every time they'd tried to lock him in his cupboard? If
he'd once defeated the greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley
had always been able to kick him around like a football?

"Hagrid," he said quietly, "I think you must have made a mistake. I
don't think I can be a wizard."

To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.

"Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scared or
angry?"

Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think about it... every odd
thing that had ever made his aunt and uncle furious with him had
happened when he, Harry, had been upset or angry... chased by Dudley's
gang, he had somehow found himself out of their reach... dreading going
to school with that ridiculous haircut, he'd managed to make it grow
back... and the very last time Dudley had hit him, hadn't he got his
revenge, without even realizing he was doing it? Hadn't he set a boa
constrictor on him?

Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid was positively
beaming at him.

"See?" said Hagrid. "Harry Potter, not a wizard -- you wait, you'll be
right famous at Hogwarts."

But Uncle Vernon wasn't going to give in without a fight.

"Haven't I told you he's not going?" he hissed. "He's going to Stonewall
High and he'll be grateful for it. I've read those letters and he needs
all sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --"

"If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won't stop him," growled
Hagrid. "Stop Lily an' James Potter' s son goin' ter Hogwarts! Yer mad.
His name's been down ever since he was born. He's off ter the finest
school of witchcraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he
won't know himself. He'll be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a
change, an' he'll be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had
Albus Dumbled--"

"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!"
yelled Uncle Vernon.

But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his umbrella and whirled
it over his head, "NEVER," he thundered, "- INSULT- ALBUS- DUMBLEDORE-
IN- FRONT- OF- ME!"

He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Dudley
-- there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a firecracker, a
sharp squeal, and the next second, Dudley was dancing on the spot with
his hands clasped over his fat bottom, howling in pain. When he turned
his back on them, Harry saw a curly pig's tail poking through a hole in
his trousers.

Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into the other
room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammed the door
behind them.

Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard.

"Shouldn'ta lost me temper," he said ruefully, "but it didn't work
anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so much like
a pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do."

He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows.

"Be grateful if yeh didn't mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts," he
said. "I'm -- er -- not supposed ter do magic, strictly speakin'. I was
allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an' get yer letters to yeh an' stuff
-- one o' the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job

"Why aren't you supposed to do magic?" asked Harry.

"Oh, well -- I was at Hogwarts meself but I -- er -- got expelled, ter
tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an'
everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man,
Dumbledore." "Why were you expelled?"

"It's gettin' late and we've got lots ter do tomorrow," said Hagrid
loudly. "Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an' that."

He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry.

"You can kip under that," he said. "Don' mind if it wriggles a bit, I
think I still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets."

CHAPTER  TWENTY-SIX

THE SECOND TASK

ou said you’d already worked out that egg clue!” said Hermione
indignantly.
“Keep your voice down!” said Harry crossly. “I just need to — sort of
fine-tune it, all right?”
He, Ron, and Hermione were sitting at the very back of the Charms class
with a table to themselves. They were supposed to be practicing the
opposite of the Summoning Charm today — the Banishing Charm. Owing
to the potential for nasty accidents when objects kept flying across the
room, Professor Flitwick had given each student a stack of cushions on
which to practice, the theory being that these wouldn’t hurt anyone if they
went off target. It was a good theory, but it wasn’t working very well.
Neville’s aim was so poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier
things flying across the room — Professor Flitwick, for instance.
“Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?” Harry hissed as Professor
Flitwick went whizzing resignedly past them, landing on top of a large
cabinet. “I’m trying to tell you about Snape and Moody. . . .”

This class was an ideal cover for a private conversation, as everyone was
having far too much fun to pay them any attention. Harry had been
recounting his adventures of the previous night in whispered installments
for the last half hour.

“Snape said Moody’s searched his office as well?” Ron whispered, his
eyes alight with interest as he Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand
(it soared into the air and knocked Parvati’s hat off). “What  .  .  . d’you
reckon Moody’s here to keep an eye on Snape as well as Karkaroff?”

“Well, I dunno if that’s what Dumbledore asked him to do, but he’s
definitely doing it,” said Harry, waving his wand without paying much
attention, so that his cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk.
“Moody said Dumbledore only lets Snape stay here because he’s giving him
a second chance or something. . . .”

“What?” said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion spinning high into
the air, ricocheting off the chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick’s
desk. “Harry . . . maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name in the Goblet
of Fire!”

“Oh Ron,” said Hermione, shaking her head skeptically, “we thought
Snape was trying to kill Harry before, and it turned out he was saving
Harry’s life, remember?”

She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room and landed in the box
they were all supposed to be aiming at. Harry looked at Hermione,
thinking . . . it was true that Snape had saved his life once, but the odd thing
was, Snape definitely loathed him, just as he’d loathed Harry’s father when
they had been at school together. Snape loved taking points from Harry, and
had certainly never missed an opportunity to give him punishments, or even
to suggest that he should be suspended from the school.

“I don’t care what Moody says,” Hermione went on. “Dumbledore’s not
stupid. He was right to trust Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads
of people wouldn’t have given them jobs, so why shouldn’t he be right
about Snape, even if Snape is a bit —”

“— evil,” said Ron promptly. “Come on, Hermione, why are all these
Dark wizard catchers searching his office, then?”
“Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?” said Hermione,
ignoring Ron. “It’s a bit funny, isn’t it, that he can’t manage to come to the
Yule Ball, but he can get up here in the middle of the night when he wants
to?”

“You just don’t like Crouch because of that elf, Winky,” said Ron,
sending a cushion soaring into the window.
“You just want to think Snape’s up to something,” said Hermione,
sending her cushion zooming neatly into the box.

“I just want to know what Snape did with his first chance, if he’s on his
second one,” said Harry grimly, and his cushion, to his very great surprise,
flew straight across the room and landed neatly on top of Hermione’s.
Obedient to Sirius’s wish of hearing about anything odd at Hogwarts, Harry
sent him a letter by brown owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch
breaking into Snape’s office, and Moody and Snape’s conversation. Then
Harry turned his attention in earnest to the most urgent problem facing him:
how to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty-fourth of February.

Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning Charm again — Harry
had explained about Aqua-Lungs, and Ron couldn’t see why Harry
shouldn’t Summon one from the nearest Muggle town. Hermione squashed
this plan by pointing out that, in the unlikely event that Harry managed to
learn how to operate an Aqua-Lung within the set limit of an hour, he was
sure to be disqualified for breaking the International Code of Wizarding
Secrecy — it was too much to hope that no Muggles would spot an AquaLung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts.
“Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to Transfigure yourself
into a submarine or something,” Hermione said. “If only we’d done human
Transfiguration already! But I don’t think we start that until sixth year, and
it can go badly wrong if you don’t know what you’re doing. . . .”

“Yeah, I don’t fancy walking around with a periscope sticking out of my
head,” said Harry. “I s’pose I could always attack someone in front of
Moody; he might do it for me. . . .”

“I don’t think he’d let you choose what you wanted to be turned into,
though,” said Hermione seriously. “No, I think your best chance is some
sort of charm.”

So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had enough of the library to
last him a lifetime, buried himself once more among the dusty volumes,
looking for any spell that might enable a human to survive without oxygen.
However, though he, Ron, and Hermione searched through their lunchtimes,
evenings, and whole weekends — though Harry asked Professor
McGonagall for a note of permission to use the Restricted Section, and even
asked the irritable, vulture-like librarian, Madam Pince, for help — they
found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to spend an hour
underwater and live to tell the tale.

Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb Harry now, and he
was finding it difficult to concentrate in class again. The lake, which Harry
had always taken for granted as just another feature of the grounds, drew
his eyes whenever he was near a classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass
of chilly water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to seem as distant
as the moon.

Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was slipping away as
though somebody had bewitched the clocks to go extra-fast. There was a
week to go before February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) . . . there
were five days to go (he was bound to find something soon) . . . three days
to go (please let me find something . . . please) . . .

With two days left, Harry started to go off food again. The only good
thing about breakfast on Monday was the return of the brown owl he had
sent to Sirius. He pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the shortest
letter Sirius had ever written to him.

Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl.
Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the back, hoping to see
something else, but it was blank.
“Weekend after next,” whispered Hermione, who had read the note over
Harry’s shoulder. “Here — take my quill and send this owl back straight
away.”

Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of Sirius’s letter, tied it onto
the brown owl’s leg, and watched it take flight again. What had he
expected? Advice on how to survive underwater? He had been so intent on
telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he had completely forgotten to
mention the egg’s clue.
“What’s he want to know about the next Hogsmeade weekend for?” said
Ron.

“Dunno,” said Harry dully. The momentary happiness that had flared
inside him at the sight of the owl had died. “Come on . . . Care of Magical
Creatures.”

Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast-Ended Skrewts, or
because there were now only two skrewts left, or because he was trying to
prove he could do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank could, Harry
didn’t know, but Hagrid had been continuing her lessons on unicorns ever
since he’d returned to work. It turned out that Hagrid knew quite as much
about unicorns as he did about monsters, though it was clear that he found
their lack of poisonous fangs disappointing.

Today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals. Unlike full-grown
unicorns, they were pure gold. Parvati and Lavender went into transports of
delight at the sight of them, and even Pansy Parkinson had to work hard to
conceal how much she liked them.

“Easier ter spot than the adults,” Hagrid told the class. “They turn silver
when they’re abou’ two years old, an’ they grow horns at aroun’ four. Don’
go pure white till they’re full grown, ’round about seven. They’re a bit more
trustin’ when they’re babies . . . don’ mind boys so much. . . . C’mon, move
in a bit, yeh can pat ’em if yeh want  .  .  . give ’em a few o’ these sugar
lumps. . . .

“You okay, Harry?” Hagrid muttered, moving aside slightly, while most
of the others swarmed around the baby unicorns.
“Yeah,” said Harry.
“Jus’ nervous, eh?” said Hagrid.

“Bit,” said Harry.
“Harry,” said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his shoulder, so that
Harry’s knees buckled under its weight, “I’d’ve bin worried before I saw
yeh take on tha’ Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin’ yeh set yer
mind ter. I’m not worried at all. Yeh’re goin’ ter be fine. Got yer clue
worked out, haven’ yeh?”

Harry nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge to confess that he
didn’t have any idea how to survive at the bottom of the lake for an hour
came over him. He looked up at Hagrid — perhaps he had to go into the
lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it? He looked after everything
else on the grounds, after all —

“Yeh’re goin’ ter win,” Hagrid growled, patting Harry’s shoulder again,
so that Harry actually felt himself sink a couple of inches into the soft
ground. “I know it. I can feel it. Yeh’re goin’ ter win, Harry.”
Harry just couldn’t bring himself to wipe the happy, confident smile off
Hagrid’s face. Pretending he was interested in the young unicorns, he forced
a smile in return, and moved forward to pat them with the others.

By the evening before the second task, Harry felt as though he were trapped
in a nightmare. He was fully aware that even if, by some miracle, he
managed to find a suitable spell, he’d have a real job mastering it overnight.
How could he have let this happen? Why hadn’t he got to work on the egg’s
clue sooner? Why had he ever let his mind wander in class — what if a
teacher had once mentioned how to breathe underwater?

He sat with Hermione and Ron in the library as the sun set outside,
tearing feverishly through page after page of spells, hidden from one
another by the massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of them.
Harry’s heart gave a huge leap every time he saw the word “water” on a
page, but more often than not it was merely “Take two pints of water, half a
pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt . . .”

“I don’t reckon it can be done,” said Ron’s voice flatly from the other
side of the table. “There’s nothing. Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up
puddles and ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere near
powerful enough to drain the lake.”

“There must be something,” Hermione muttered, moving a candle closer
to her. Her eyes were so tired she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and
Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose about an inch from the
page. “They’d never have set a task that was undoable.”
“They have,” said Ron. “Harry, just go down to the lake tomorrow, right,
stick your head in, yell at the merpeople to give back whatever they’ve
nicked, and see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate.”
“There’s a way of doing it!” Hermione said crossly. “There just has to
be!”

She seemed to be taking the library’s lack of useful information on the
subject as a personal insult; it had never failed her before.

“I know what I should have done,” said Harry, resting, facedown, on
Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts. “I should’ve learned to be an Animagus like
Sirius.”

An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into an animal.
“Yeah, you could’ve turned into a goldfish any time you wanted!” said
Ron.

“Or a frog,” yawned Harry. He was exhausted.
“It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you have to register
yourself and everything,” said Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the
index of Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions. “Professor
McGonagall told us, remember . . . you’ve got to register yourself with the
Improper Use of Magic Office  .  .  . what animal you become, and your
markings, so you can’t abuse it. . . .”

“Hermione, I was joking,” said Harry wearily. “I know I haven’t got a
chance of turning into a frog by tomorrow morning. . . .”
“Oh this is no use,” Hermione said, snapping shut Weird Wizarding
Dilemmas. “Who on earth wants to make their nose hair grow into
ringlets?”

“I wouldn’t mind,” said Fred Weasley’s voice. “Be a talking point,
wouldn’t it?”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up. Fred and George had just emerged
from behind some bookshelves.
“What’re you two doing here?” Ron asked.
“Looking for you,” said George. “McGonagall wants you, Ron. And you,
Hermione.”

“Why?” said Hermione, looking surprised.
“Dunno . . . she was looking a bit grim, though,” said Fred.
“We’re supposed to take you down to her office,” said George.
Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his stomach drop. Was
Professor McGonagall about to tell Ron and Hermione off? Perhaps she’d
noticed how much they were helping him, when he ought to be working out
how to do the task alone?

“We’ll meet you back in the common room,” Hermione told Harry as she
got up to go with Ron — both of them looked very anxious. “Bring as many
of these books as you can, okay?”
“Right,” said Harry uneasily.

By eight o’clock, Madam Pince had extinguished all the lamps and came
to chivvy Harry out of the library. Staggering under the weight of as many
books as he could carry, Harry returned to the Gryffindor common room,
pulled a table into a corner, and continued to search. There was nothing in
Madcap Magic for Wacky Warlocks  .  .  . nothing in A Guide to Medieval
Sorcery  .  .  . not one mention of underwater exploits in An Anthology of
Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or
Powers You Never Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now You’ve
Wised Up.

Crookshanks crawled into Harry’s lap and curled up, purring deeply. The
common room emptied slowly around Harry. People kept wishing him luck
for the next morning in cheery, confident voices like Hagrid’s, all of them
apparently convinced that he was about to pull off another stunning
performance like the one he had managed in the first task. Harry couldn’t
answer them, he just nodded, feeling as though there were a golf ball stuck
in his throat. By ten to midnight, he was alone in the room with
Crookshanks. He had searched all the remaining books, and Ron and
Hermione had not come back.

It’s over, he told himself. You can’t do it. You’ll just have to go down to
the lake in the morning and tell the judges. . . .

He imagined himself explaining that he couldn’t do the task. He pictured
Bagman’s look of round-eyed surprise, Karkaroff’s satisfied, yellowtoothed smile. He could almost hear Fleur Delacour saying “I knew it . . .’e
is too young, ’e is only a little boy.” He saw Malfoy flashing his POTTER
STINKS badge at the front of the crowd, saw Hagrid’s crestfallen,
disbelieving face. . . .

Forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap, Harry stood up very
suddenly; Crookshanks hissed angrily as he landed on the floor, gave Harry
a disgusted look, and stalked away with his bottlebrush tail in the air, but
Harry was already hurrying up the spiral staircase to his dormitory. . . . He
would grab the Invisibility Cloak and go back to the library, he’d stay there
all night if he had to. . . .

“Lumos,” Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he opened the library
door.

Wand-tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, pulling down more
books — books of hexes and charms, books on merpeople and water
monsters, books on famous witches and wizards, on magical inventions, on
anything at all that might include one passing reference to underwater
survival. He carried them over to a table, then set to work, searching them
by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally checking his watch. . . .
One in the morning . . . two in the morning . . . the only way he could
keep going was to tell himself, over and over again, next book . . . in the
next one . . . the next one . . .

The mermaid in the painting in the prefects’ bathroom was laughing. Harry
was bobbing like a cork in bubbly water next to her rock, while she held his
Firebolt over his head.

“Come and get it!” she giggled maliciously. “Come on, jump!”
“I can’t,” Harry panted, snatching at the Firebolt, and struggling not to
sink. “Give it to me!”

But she just poked him painfully in the side with the end of the
broomstick, laughing at him.
“That hurts — get off — ouch —”
“Harry Potter must wake up, sir!”
“Stop poking me —”

“Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake up!”
Harry opened his eyes. He was still in the library; the Invisibility Cloak
had slipped off his head as he’d slept, and the side of his face was stuck to
the pages of Where There’s a Wand, There’s a Way. He sat up, straightening
his glasses, blinking in the bright daylight.

“Harry Potter needs to hurry!” squeaked Dobby. “The second task starts
in ten minutes, and Harry Potter —”
“Ten minutes?” Harry croaked. “Ten — ten minutes?”
He looked down at his watch. Dobby was right. It was twenty past nine.
A large, dead weight seemed to fall through Harry’s chest into his stomach.
“Hurry, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, plucking at Harry’s sleeve. “You
is supposed to be down by the lake with the other champions, sir!”

“It’s too late, Dobby,” Harry said hopelessly. “I’m not doing the task, I
don’t know how —”

“Harry Potter will do the task!” squeaked the elf. “Dobby knew Harry
had not found the right book, so Dobby did it for him!”
“What?” said Harry. “But you don’t know what the second task is —”
“Dobby knows, sir! Harry Potter has to go into the lake and find his
Wheezy —”

“Find my what?”
“— and take his Wheezy back from the merpeople!”
“What’s a Wheezy?”
“Your Wheezy, sir, your Wheezy — Wheezy who is giving Dobby his
sweater!”

Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he was now wearing
over his shorts.

“What?” Harry gasped. “They’ve got . . . they’ve got Ron?”
“The thing Harry Potter will miss most, sir!” squeaked Dobby. “‘But past
an hour —’”

“— ‘the prospect’s black,’” Harry recited, staring, horror-struck, at the
elf. “‘Too late, it’s gone, it won’t come back.’ Dobby — what’ve I got to
do?”

“You has to eat this, sir!” squeaked the elf, and he put his hand in the
pocket of his shorts and drew out a ball of what looked like slimy, grayishgreen rat tails. “Right before you go into the lake, sir — gillyweed!”
“What’s it do?” said Harry, staring at the gillyweed.
“It will make Harry Potter breathe underwater, sir!”

“Dobby,” said Harry frantically, “listen — are you sure about this?”
He couldn’t quite forget that the last time Dobby had tried to “help” him,
he had ended up with no bones in his right arm.

“Dobby is quite sure, sir!” said the elf earnestly. “Dobby hears things, sir,
he is a house-elf, he goes all over the castle as he lights the fires and mops
the floors. Dobby heard Professor McGonagall and Professor Moody in the
staffroom, talking about the next task. . . . Dobby cannot let Harry Potter
lose his Wheezy!”

Harry’s doubts vanished. Jumping to his feet he pulled off the Invisibility
Cloak, stuffed it into his bag, grabbed the gillyweed, and put it into his
pocket, then tore out of the library with Dobby at his heels.
“Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!” Dobby squealed as they
burst into the corridor. “Dobby will be missed — good luck, Harry Potter,
sir, good luck!”

“See you later, Dobby!” Harry shouted, and he sprinted along the
corridor and down the stairs, three at a time.
The entrance hall contained a few last-minute stragglers, all leaving the
Great Hall after breakfast and heading through the double oak doors to
watch the second task. They stared as Harry flashed past, sending Colin and
Dennis Creevey flying as he leapt down the stone steps and out onto the
bright, chilly grounds.

As he pounded down the lawn he saw that the seats that had encircled the
dragons’ enclosure in November were now ranged along the opposite bank,
rising in stands that were packed to the bursting point and reflected in the
lake below. The excited babble of the crowd echoed strangely across the
water as Harry ran flat-out around the other side of the lake toward the
judges, who were sitting at another gold-draped table at the water’s edge.
Cedric, Fleur, and Krum were beside the judges’ table, watching Harry
sprint toward them.

“I’m  .  .  . here  .  .  .” Harry panted, skidding to a halt in the mud and
accidentally splattering Fleur’s robes.
“Where have you been?” said a bossy, disapproving voice. “The task’s
about to start!”
Harry looked around. Percy Weasley was sitting at the judges’ table —
Mr. Crouch had failed to turn up again.
“Now, now, Percy!” said Ludo Bagman, who was looking intensely
relieved to see Harry. “Let him catch his breath!”

Dumbledore smiled at Harry, but Karkaroff and Madame Maxime didn’t
look at all pleased to see him. . . . It was obvious from the looks on their
faces that they had thought he wasn’t going to turn up.
Harry bent over, hands on his knees, gasping for breath; he had a stitch in
his side that felt as though he had a knife between his ribs, but there was no
time to get rid of it; Ludo Bagman was now moving among the champions,
spacing them along the bank at intervals of ten feet. Harry was on the very
end of the line, next to Krum, who was wearing swimming trunks and was
holding his wand ready.

“All right, Harry?” Bagman whispered as he moved Harry a few feet
farther away from Krum. “Know what you’re going to do?”
“Yeah,” Harry panted, massaging his ribs.

Bagman gave Harry’s shoulder a quick squeeze and returned to the
judges’ table; he pointed his wand at his throat as he had done at the World
Cup, said, “Sonorus!” and his voice boomed out across the dark water
toward the stands.

“Well, all our champions are ready for the second task, which will start
on my whistle. They have precisely an hour to recover what has been taken
from them. On the count of three, then. One . . . two . . . three!”
The whistle echoed shrilly in the cold, still air; the stands erupted with
cheers and applause; without looking to see what the other champions were
doing, Harry pulled off his shoes and socks, pulled the handful of gillyweed
out of his pocket, stuffed it into his mouth, and waded out into the lake.
It was so cold he felt the skin on his legs searing as though this were fire,
not icy water. His sodden robes weighed him down as he walked in deeper;

now the water was over his knees, and his rapidly numbing feet were
slipping over silt and flat, slimy stones. He was chewing the gillyweed as
hard and fast as he could; it felt unpleasantly slimy and rubbery, like
octopus tentacles. Waist-deep in the freezing water he stopped, swallowed,
and waited for something to happen.

He could hear laughter in the crowd and knew he must look stupid,
walking into the lake without showing any sign of magical power. The part
of him that was still dry was covered in goose pimples; half immersed in
the icy water, a cruel breeze lifting his hair, Harry started to shiver violently.
He avoided looking at the stands; the laughter was becoming louder, and
there were catcalls and jeering from the Slytherins. . . .

Then, quite suddenly, Harry felt as though an invisible pillow had been
pressed over his mouth and nose. He tried to draw breath, but it made his
head spin; his lungs were empty, and he suddenly felt a piercing pain on
either side of his neck —

Harry clapped his hands around his throat and felt two large slits just
below his ears, flapping in the cold air. . . . He had gills. Without pausing to
think, he did the only thing that made sense — he flung himself forward
into the water.

The first gulp of icy lake water felt like the breath of life. His head had
stopped spinning; he took another great gulp of water and felt it pass
smoothly through his gills, sending oxygen back to his brain. He stretched
out his hands in front of him and stared at them. They looked green and
ghostly under the water, and they had become webbed. He twisted around
and looked at his bare feet — they had become elongated and the toes were
webbed too: It looked as though he had sprouted flippers.

The water didn’t feel icy anymore either  .  .  . on the contrary, he felt
pleasantly cool and very light. . . . Harry struck out once more, marveling at
how far and fast his flipper-like feet propelled him through the water, and
noticing how clearly he could see, and how he no longer seemed to need to
blink. He had soon swum so far into the lake that he could no longer see the
bottom. He flipped over and dived into its depths.

Silence pressed upon his ears as he soared over a strange, dark, foggy
landscape. He could only see ten feet around him, so that as he sped
through the water new scenes seemed to loom suddenly out of the
oncoming darkness: forests of rippling, tangled black weed, wide plains of
mud littered with dull, glimmering stones. He swam deeper and deeper, out
toward the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring through the eerily
gray-lit water around him to the shadows beyond, where the water became
opaque.

Small fish flickered past him like silver darts. Once or twice he thought
he saw something larger moving ahead of him, but when he got nearer, he
discovered it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense clump of
weed. There was no sign of any of the other champions, merpeople, Ron —
nor, thankfully, the giant squid.

Light green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he could see, two feet
deep, like a meadow of very overgrown grass. Harry was staring
unblinkingly ahead of him, trying to discern shapes through the gloom . . .
and then, without warning, something grabbed hold of his ankle.
Harry twisted his body around and saw a grindylow, a small, horned
water demon, poking out of the weed, its long fingers clutched tightly
around Harry’s leg, its pointed fangs bared — Harry stuck his webbed hand
quickly inside his robes and fumbled for his wand. By the time he had
grasped it, two more grindylows had risen out of the weed, had seized
handfuls of Harry’s robes, and were attempting to drag him down.

“Relashio!” Harry shouted, except that no sound came out. . . . A large
bubble issued from his mouth, and his wand, instead of sending sparks at
the grindylows, pelted them with what seemed to be a jet of boiling water,
for where it struck them, angry red patches appeared on their green skin.
Harry pulled his ankle out of the grindylow’s grip and swam, as fast as he
could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water over his shoulder at
random; every now and then he felt one of the grindylows snatch at his foot
again, and he kicked out, hard; finally, he felt his foot connect with a horned
skull, and looking back, saw the dazed grindylow floating away, cross-eyed,
while its fellows shook their fists at Harry and sank back into the weed.

Harry slowed down a little, slipped his wand back inside his robes, and
looked around, listening again. He turned full circle in the water, the silence
pressing harder than ever against his eardrums. He knew he must be even
deeper in the lake now, but nothing was moving but the rippling weed.
“How are you getting on?”

Harry thought he was having a heart attack. He whipped around and saw
Moaning Myrtle floating hazily in front of him, gazing at him through her
thick, pearly glasses.

“Myrtle!” Harry tried to shout — but once again, nothing came out of his
mouth but a very large bubble. Moaning Myrtle actually giggled.
“You want to try over there!” she said, pointing. “I won’t come with
you.  .  .  . I don’t like them much, they always chase me when I get too
close. . . .”

Harry gave her the thumbs-up to show his thanks and set off once more,
careful to swim a bit higher over the weed to avoid any more grindylows
that might be lurking there.

He swam on for what felt like at least twenty minutes. He was passing
over vast expanses of black mud now, which swirled murkily as he
disturbed the water. Then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunting
mersong.

“An hour long you’ll have to look, And to recover what we
took . . .”

Harry swam faster and soon saw a large rock emerge out of the muddy
water ahead. It had paintings of merpeople on it; they were carrying spears
and chasing what looked like the giant squid. Harry swam on past the rock,
following the mersong.

“. . . your time’s half gone, so tarry not Lest what you seek stays
here to rot. . . .”

A cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae loomed suddenly
out of the gloom on all sides. Here and there at the dark windows, Harry
saw faces . . . faces that bore no resemblance at all to the painting of the
mermaid in the prefects’ bathroom. . . .

The merpeople had grayish skin and long, wild, dark green hair. Their
eyes were yellow, as were their broken teeth, and they wore thick ropes of
pebbles around their necks. They leered at Harry as he swam past; one or
two of them emerged from their caves to watch him better, their powerful,
silver fish tails beating the water, spears clutched in their hands.

Harry sped on, staring around, and soon the dwellings became more
numerous; there were gardens of weed around some of them, and he even
saw a pet grindylow tied to a stake outside one door. Merpeople were
emerging on all sides now, watching him eagerly, pointing at his webbed
hands and gills, talking behind their hands to one another. Harry sped
around a corner and a very strange sight met his eyes.

A whole crowd of merpeople was floating in front of the houses that
lined what looked like a mer-version of a village square. A choir of
merpeople was singing in the middle, calling the champions toward them,
and behind them rose a crude sort of statue; a gigantic merperson hewn
from a boulder. Four people were bound tightly to the tail of the stone
merperson.

Ron was tied between Hermione and Cho Chang. There was also a girl
who looked no older than eight, whose clouds of silvery hair made Harry
feel sure that she was Fleur Delacour’s sister. All four of them appeared to
be in a very deep sleep. Their heads were lolling onto their shoulders, and
fine streams of bubbles kept issuing from their mouths.

Harry sped toward the hostages, half expecting the merpeople to lower
their spears and charge at him, but they did nothing. The ropes of weed
tying the hostages to the statue were thick, slimy, and very strong. For a
fleeting second he thought of the knife Sirius had bought him for Christmas
— locked in his trunk in the castle a quarter of a mile away, no use to him
whatsoever.

He looked around. Many of the merpeople surrounding them were
carrying spears. He swam swiftly toward a seven-foot-tall merman with a
long green beard and a choker of shark fangs and tried to mime a request to
borrow the spear. The merman laughed and shook his head.
“We do not help,” he said in a harsh, croaky voice.

“Come ON!” Harry said fiercely (but only bubbles issued from his
mouth), and he tried to pull the spear away from the merman, but the
merman yanked it back, still shaking his head and laughing.
Harry swirled around, staring about. Something sharp . . . anything . . .
There were rocks littering the lake bottom. He dived and snatched up a
particularly jagged one and returned to the statue. He began to hack at the
ropes binding Ron, and after several minutes’ hard work, they broke apart.
Ron floated, unconscious, a few inches above the lake bottom, drifting a
little in the ebb of the water.

Harry looked around. There was no sign of any of the other champions.
What were they playing at? Why didn’t they hurry up? He turned back to
Hermione, raised the jagged rock, and began to hack at her bindings too —
At once, several pairs of strong gray hands seized him. Half a dozen
mermen were pulling him away from Hermione, shaking their green-haired
heads, and laughing.
“You take your own hostage,” one of them said to him. “Leave the
others . . .”

“No way!” said Harry furiously — but only two large bubbles came out.
“Your task is to retrieve your own friend . . . leave the others . . .”
“She’s my friend too!” Harry yelled, gesturing toward Hermione, an
enormous silver bubble emerging soundlessly from his lips. “And I don’t
want them to die either!”

Cho’s head was on Hermione’s shoulder; the small silver-haired girl was
ghostly green and pale. Harry struggled to fight off the mermen, but they
laughed harder than ever, holding him back. Harry looked wildly around.
Where were the other champions? Would he have time to take Ron to the
surface and come back down for Hermione and the others? Would he be
able to find them again? He looked down at his watch to see how much
time was left — it had stopped working.

But then the merpeople around him started pointing excitedly over his
head. Harry looked up and saw Cedric swimming toward them. There was
an enormous bubble around his head, which made his features look oddly
wide and stretched.

“Got lost!” he mouthed, looking panic-stricken. “Fleur and Krum’re
coming now!”

Feeling enormously relieved, Harry watched Cedric pull a knife out of
his pocket and cut Cho free. He pulled her upward and out of sight.
Harry looked around, waiting. Where were Fleur and Krum? Time was
getting short, and according to the song, the hostages would be lost after an
hour. . . .

The merpeople started screeching animatedly. Those holding Harry
loosened their grip, staring behind them. Harry turned and saw something
monstrous cutting through the water toward them: a human body in
swimming trunks with the head of a shark. . . . It was Krum. He appeared to
have transfigured himself — but badly.

The shark-man swam straight to Hermione and began snapping and
biting at her ropes; the trouble was that Krum’s new teeth were positioned
very awkwardly for biting anything smaller than a dolphin, and Harry was
quite sure that if Krum wasn’t careful, he was going to rip Hermione in half.
Darting forward, Harry hit Krum hard on the shoulder and held up the
jagged stone. Krum seized it and began to cut Hermione free. Within
seconds, he had done it; he grabbed Hermione around the waist, and
without a backward glance, began to rise rapidly with her toward the
surface.

Now what? Harry thought desperately. If he could be sure that Fleur was
coming. . . . But still no sign. There was nothing to be done except . . .
He snatched up the stone, which Krum had dropped, but the mermen now
closed in around Ron and the little girl, shaking their heads at him. Harry
pulled out his wand.

“Get out of the way!”
Only bubbles flew out of his mouth, but he had the distinct impression
that the mermen had understood him, because they suddenly stopped
laughing. Their yellowish eyes were fixed upon Harry’s wand, and they
looked scared. There might be a lot more of them than there were of him,
but Harry could tell, by the looks on their faces, that they knew no more
magic than the giant squid did.

“You’ve got until three!” Harry shouted; a great stream of bubbles burst
from him, but he held up three fingers to make sure they got the message.
“One . . .” (he put down a finger) “two . . .” (he put down a second one) —
They scattered. Harry darted forward and began to hack at the ropes
binding the small girl to the statue, and at last she was free. He seized the
little girl around the waist, grabbed the neck of Ron’s robes, and kicked off
from the bottom.

It was very slow work. He could no longer use his webbed hands to
propel himself forward; he worked his flippers furiously, but Ron and
Fleur’s sister were like potato-filled sacks dragging him back down. . . . He
fixed his eyes skyward, though he knew he must still be very deep, the
water above him was so dark. . . .

Merpeople were rising with him. He could see them swirling around him
with ease, watching him struggle through the water.  .  .  . Would they pull
him back down to the depths when the time was up? Did they perhaps eat
humans? Harry’s legs were seizing up with the effort to keep swimming; his
shoulders were aching horribly with the effort of dragging Ron and the
girl. . . .

He was drawing breath with extreme difficulty. He could feel pain on the
sides of his neck again . . . he was becoming very aware of how wet the
water was in his mouth . . . yet the darkness was definitely thinning now . . .
he could see daylight above him. . . .

He kicked hard with his flippers and discovered that they were nothing
more than feet . . . water was flooding through his mouth into his lungs . . .
he was starting to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were only ten feet
above him . . . he had to get there . . . he had to . . .
Harry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as though his muscles were
screaming in protest; his very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn’t breathe,
he needed oxygen, he had to keep going, he could not stop —

And then he felt his head break the surface of the lake; wonderful, cold,
clear air was making his wet face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as
though he had never breathed properly before, and, panting, pulled Ron and
the little girl up with him. All around him, wild, green-haired heads were
emerging out of the water with him, but they were smiling at him.

The crowd in the stands was making a great deal of noise; shouting and
screaming, they all seemed to be on their feet; Harry had the impression
they thought that Ron and the little girl might be dead, but they were
wrong . . . both of them had opened their eyes; the girl looked scared and
confused, but Ron merely expelled a great spout of water, blinked in the
bright light, turned to Harry, and said, “Wet, this, isn’t it?” Then he spotted
Fleur’s sister. “What did you bring her for?”

“Fleur didn’t turn up, I couldn’t leave her,” Harry panted.
“Harry, you prat,” said Ron, “you didn’t take that song thing seriously,
did you? Dumbledore wouldn’t have let any of us drown!”
“The song said —”
“It was only to make sure you got back inside the time limit!” said Ron.
“I hope you didn’t waste time down there acting the hero!”
Harry felt both stupid and annoyed. It was all very well for Ron; he’d
been asleep, he hadn’t felt how eerie it was down in the lake, surrounded by
spear-carrying merpeople who’d looked more than capable of murder.
“C’mon,” Harry said shortly, “help me with her, I don’t think she can
swim very well.”

They pulled Fleur’s sister through the water, back toward the bank where
the judges stood watching, twenty merpeople accompanying them like a
guard of honor, singing their horrible screechy songs.
Harry could see Madam Pomfrey fussing over Hermione, Krum, Cedric,
and Cho, all of whom were wrapped in thick blankets. Dumbledore and
Ludo Bagman stood beaming at Harry and Ron from the bank as they swam
nearer, but Percy, who looked very white and somehow much younger than
usual, came splashing out to meet them. Meanwhile Madame Maxime was
trying to restrain Fleur Delacour, who was quite hysterical, fighting tooth
and nail to return to the water.

“Gabrielle! Gabrielle! Is she alive? Is she ’urt?”
“She’s fine!” Harry tried to tell her, but he was so exhausted he could
hardly talk, let alone shout.

Percy seized Ron and was dragging him back to the bank (“Gerroff,
Percy, I’m all right!”); Dumbledore and Bagman were pulling Harry
upright; Fleur had broken free of Madame Maxime and was hugging her
sister.

“It was ze grindylows . . . zey attacked me . . . oh Gabrielle, I thought . . .
I thought . . .”
“Come here, you,” said Madam Pomfrey. She seized Harry and pulled
him over to Hermione and the others, wrapped him so tightly in a blanket
that he felt as though he were in a straitjacket, and forced a measure of very
hot potion down his throat. Steam gushed out of his ears.
“Harry, well done!” Hermione cried. “You did it, you found out how all
by yourself!”

“Well —” said Harry. He would have told her about Dobby, but he had
just noticed Karkaroff watching him. He was the only judge who had not
left the table; the only judge not showing signs of pleasure and relief that
Harry, Ron, and Fleur’s sister had got back safely. “Yeah, that’s right,” said
Harry, raising his voice slightly so that Karkaroff could hear him.
“You haff a water beetle in your hair, Herm-own-ninny,” said Krum.
Harry had the impression that Krum was drawing her attention back onto
himself; perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her from the lake,
but Hermione brushed away the beetle impatiently and said, “You’re well
outside the time limit, though, Harry. . . . Did it take you ages to find us?”
“No . . . I found you okay. . . .”

Harry’s feeling of stupidity was growing. Now he was out of the water, it
seemed perfectly clear that Dumbledore’s safety precautions wouldn’t have
permitted the death of a hostage just because their champion hadn’t turned
up. Why hadn’t he just grabbed Ron and gone? He would have been first
back. . . . Cedric and Krum hadn’t wasted time worrying about anyone else;
they hadn’t taken the mersong seriously. . . .

Dumbledore was crouching at the water’s edge, deep in conversation
with what seemed to be the chief merperson, a particularly wild and
ferocious-looking female. He was making the same sort of screechy noises
that the merpeople made when they were above water; clearly, Dumbledore
could speak Mermish. Finally he straightened up, turned to his fellow
judges, and said, “A conference before we give the marks, I think.”

The judges went into a huddle. Madam Pomfrey had gone to rescue Ron
from Percy’s clutches; she led him over to Harry and the others, gave him a
blanket and some Pepperup Potion, then went to fetch Fleur and her sister.
Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms and her robes were torn, but she
didn’t seem to care, nor would she allow Madam Pomfrey to clean them.
“Look after Gabrielle,” she told her, and then she turned to Harry. “You
saved ’er,” she said breathlessly. “Even though she was not your ’ostage.”
“Yeah,” said Harry, who was now heartily wishing he’d left all three girls
tied to the statue.

Fleur bent down, kissed Harry twice on each cheek (he felt his face burn
and wouldn’t have been surprised if steam was coming out of his ears
again), then said to Ron, “And you too — you ’elped —”
“Yeah,” said Ron, looking extremely hopeful, “yeah, a bit —”
Fleur swooped down on him too and kissed him. Hermione looked
simply furious, but just then, Ludo Bagman’s magically magnified voice
boomed out beside them, making them all jump, and causing the crowd in
the stands to go very quiet.

“Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached our decision. Merchieftainess
Murcus has told us exactly what happened at the bottom of the lake, and we
have therefore decided to award marks out of fifty for each of the
champions, as follows. . . .

“Fleur Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent use of the BubbleHead Charm, was attacked by grindylows as she approached her goal, and
failed to retrieve her hostage. We award her twenty-five points.”
Applause from the stands.

“I deserved zero,” said Fleur throatily, shaking her magnificent head.
“Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head Charm, was first to
return with his hostage, though he returned one minute outside the time
limit of an hour.” Enormous cheers from the Hufflepuffs in the crowd;
Harry saw Cho give Cedric a glowing look. “We therefore award him fortyseven points.”
Harry’s heart sank. If Cedric had been outside the time limit, he most
certainly had been.
“Viktor Krum used an incomplete form of Transfiguration, which was
nevertheless effective, and was second to return with his hostage. We award
him forty points.”

Karkaroff clapped particularly hard, looking very superior.
“Harry Potter used gillyweed to great effect,” Bagman continued. “He
returned last, and well outside the time limit of an hour. However, the
Merchieftainess informs us that Mr. Potter was first to reach the hostages,
and that the delay in his return was due to his determination to return all
hostages to safety, not merely his own.”

Ron and Hermione both gave Harry half-exasperated, halfcommiserating looks.
“Most of the judges,” and here, Bagman gave Karkaroff a very nasty
look, “feel that this shows moral fiber and merits full marks. However . . .
Mr. Potter’s score is forty-five points.”
Harry’s stomach leapt — he was now tying for first place with Cedric.
Ron and Hermione, caught by surprise, stared at Harry, then laughed and
started applauding hard with the rest of the crowd.

“There you go, Harry!” Ron shouted over the noise. “You weren’t being
thick after all — you were showing moral fiber!”
Fleur was clapping very hard too, but Krum didn’t look happy at all. He
attempted to engage Hermione in conversation again, but she was too busy
cheering Harry to listen.
“The third and final task will take place at dusk on the twenty-fourth of
June,” continued Bagman. “The champions will be notified of what is
coming precisely one month beforehand. Thank you all for your support of
the champions.”

It was over, Harry thought dazedly, as Madam Pomfrey began herding
the champions and hostages back to the castle to get into dry clothes . . . it
was over, he had got through . . . he didn’t have to worry about anything
now until June the twenty-fourth. . . .

Next time he was in Hogsmeade, Harry decided as he walked back up the
stone steps into the castle, he was going to buy Dobby a pair of socks for
every day of the year.


CHAPTER  TWENTY-SEVEN

PADFOOT RETURNS

ne of the best things about the aftermath of the second task was that
everybody was very keen to hear details of what had happened down
in the lake, which meant that Ron was getting to share Harry’s limelight for
once. Harry noticed that Ron’s version of events changed subtly with every
retelling. At first, he gave what seemed to be the truth; it tallied with
Hermione’s story, anyway — Dumbledore had put all the hostages into a
bewitched sleep in Professor McGonagall’s office, first assuring them that
they would be quite safe, and would awake when they were back above the
water. One week later, however, Ron was telling a thrilling tale of kidnap in
which he struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed merpeople
who had to beat him into submission before tying him up.

“But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve,” he assured Padma Patil, who
seemed to be a lot keener on Ron now that he was getting so much attention
and was making a point of talking to him every time they passed in the
corridors. “I could’ve taken those mer-idiots any time I wanted.”
“What were you going to do, snore at them?” said Hermione waspishly.
People had been teasing her so much about being the thing that Viktor
Krum would most miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood.
Ron’s ears went red, and thereafter, he reverted to the bewitched sleep
version of events.

As they entered March the weather became drier, but cruel winds skinned
their hands and faces every time they went out onto the grounds. There
were delays in the post because the owls kept being blown off course. The
brown owl that Harry had sent to Sirius with the dates of the Hogsmeade
weekend turned up at breakfast on Friday morning with half its feathers
sticking up the wrong way; Harry had no sooner torn off Sirius’s reply than
it took flight, clearly afraid it was going to be sent outside again.
Sirius’s letter was almost as short as the previous one.

Be at stile at end of road out of Hogsmeade (past Dervish and
Banges) at two o’clock on Saturday afternoon. Bring as much
food as you can.

“He hasn’t come back to Hogsmeade?” said Ron incredulously.
“It looks like it, doesn’t it?” said Hermione.

“I can’t believe him,” said Harry tensely, “if he’s caught . . .”
“Made it so far, though, hasn’t he?” said Ron. “And it’s not like the place
is swarming with dementors anymore.”

Harry folded up the letter, thinking. If he was honest with himself, he
really wanted to see Sirius again. He therefore approached the final lesson
of the afternoon — double Potions — feeling considerably more cheerful
than he usually did when descending the steps to the dungeons.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in a huddle outside the
classroom door with Pansy Parkinson’s gang of Slytherin girls. All of them
were looking at something Harry couldn’t see and sniggering heartily.
Pansy’s pug-like face peered excitedly around Goyle’s broad back as Harry,
Ron, and Hermione approached.

“There they are, there they are!” she giggled, and the knot of Slytherins
broke apart. Harry saw that Pansy had a magazine in her hands — Witch
Weekly. The moving picture on the front showed a curly-haired witch who
was smiling toothily and pointing at a large sponge cake with her wand.
“You might find something to interest you in there, Granger!” Pansy said
loudly, and she threw the magazine at Hermione, who caught it, looking
startled. At that moment, the dungeon door opened, and Snape beckoned
them all inside.

Hermione, Harry, and Ron headed for a table at the back of the dungeon
as usual. Once Snape had turned his back on them to write up the
ingredients of today’s potion on the blackboard, Hermione hastily rifled
through the magazine under the desk. At last, in the center pages, Hermione
found what they were looking for. Harry and Ron leaned in closer. A color
photograph of Harry headed a short piece entitled:

Harry Potter’s Secret Heartache
A boy like no other, perhaps — yet a boy suffering all the usual
pangs of adolescence, writes Rita Skeeter. Deprived of love since
the tragic demise of his parents, fourteen-year-old Harry Potter
thought he had found solace in his steady girlfriend at Hogwarts,
Muggle-born Hermione Granger. Little did he know that he
would shortly be suffering yet another emotional blow in a life
already littered with personal loss.

Miss Granger, a plain but ambitious girl, seems to have a taste
for famous wizards that Harry alone cannot satisfy. Since the
arrival at Hogwarts of Viktor Krum, Bulgarian Seeker and hero of
the last World Quidditch Cup, Miss Granger has been toying with
both boys’ affections. Krum, who is openly smitten with the
devious Miss Granger, has already invited her to visit him in
Bulgaria over the summer holidays, and insists that he has “never
felt this way about any other girl.”

However, it might not be Miss Granger’s doubtful natural
charms that have captured these unfortunate boys’ interest.
“She’s really ugly,” says Pansy Parkinson, a pretty and
vivacious fourth-year student, “but she’d be well up to making a
Love Potion, she’s quite brainy. I think that’s how she’s doing it.”
Love Potions are, of course, banned at Hogwarts, and no doubt
Albus Dumbledore will want to investigate these claims. In the
meantime, Harry Potter’s well-wishers must hope that, next time,
he bestows his heart on a worthier candidate.

“I told you!” Ron hissed at Hermione as she stared down at the article. “I
told you not to annoy Rita Skeeter! She’s made you out to be some sort of
— of scarlet woman!”

Hermione stopped looking astonished and snorted with laughter. “Scarlet
woman?” she repeated, shaking with suppressed giggles as she looked
around at Ron.

“It’s what my mum calls them,” Ron muttered, his ears going red.
“If that’s the best Rita can do, she’s losing her touch,” said Hermione,
still giggling, as she threw Witch Weekly onto the empty chair beside her.
“What a pile of old rubbish.”

She looked over at the Slytherins, who were all watching her and Harry
closely across the room to see if they had been upset by the article.
Hermione gave them a sarcastic smile and a wave, and she, Harry, and Ron
started unpacking the ingredients they would need for their Wit-Sharpening
Potion.

“There’s something funny, though,” said Hermione ten minutes later,
holding her pestle suspended over a bowl of scarab beetles. “How could
Rita Skeeter have known . . . ?”
“Known what?” said Ron quickly. “You haven’t been mixing up Love
Potions, have you?”
“Don’t be stupid,” Hermione snapped, starting to pound up her beetles
again. “No, it’s just . . . how did she know Viktor asked me to visit him over
the summer?”
Hermione blushed scarlet as she said this and determinedly avoided
Ron’s eyes.

“What?” said Ron, dropping his pestle with a loud clunk.
“He asked me right after he’d pulled me out of the lake,” Hermione
muttered. “After he’d got rid of his shark’s head. Madam Pomfrey gave us
both blankets and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges so they
wouldn’t hear, and he said, if I wasn’t doing anything over the summer,
would I like to —”

“And what did you say?” said Ron, who had picked up his pestle and was
grinding it on the desk, a good six inches from his bowl, because he was
looking at Hermione.

“And he did say he’d never felt the same way about anyone else,”
Hermione went on, going so red now that Harry could almost feel the heat
coming from her, “but how could Rita Skeeter have heard him? She wasn’t
there . . . or was she? Maybe she has got an Invisibility Cloak; maybe she
sneaked onto the grounds to watch the second task. . . .”
“And what did you say?” Ron repeated, pounding his pestle down so
hard that it dented the desk.

“Well, I was too busy seeing whether you and Harry were okay to —”
“Fascinating though your social life undoubtedly is, Miss Granger,” said
an icy voice right behind them, and all three of them jumped, “I must ask
you not to discuss it in my class. Ten points from Gryffindor.”
Snape had glided over to their desk while they were talking. The whole
class was now looking around at them; Malfoy took the opportunity to flash
POTTER STINKS across the dungeon at Harry.

“Ah  .  .  . reading magazines under the table as well?” Snape added,
snatching up the copy of Witch Weekly. “A further ten points from
Gryffindor . . . oh but of course . . .” Snape’s black eyes glittered as they fell
on Rita Skeeter’s article. “Potter has to keep up with his press cuttings. . . .”
The dungeon rang with the Slytherins’ laughter, and an unpleasant smile
curled Snape’s thin mouth. To Harry’s fury, he began to read the article
aloud.

“‘Harry Potter’s Secret Heartache’ . . . dear, dear, Potter, what’s ailing
you now? ‘A boy like no other, perhaps . . .’”
Harry could feel his face burning. Snape was pausing at the end of every
sentence to allow the Slytherins a hearty laugh. The article sounded ten
times worse when read by Snape. Even Hermione was blushing scarlet now.

“‘ . . . Harry Potter’s well-wishers must hope that, next time, he bestows
his heart upon a worthier candidate.’ How very touching,” sneered Snape,
rolling up the magazine to continued gales of laughter from the Slytherins.
“Well, I think I had better separate the three of you, so you can keep your
minds on your potions rather than on your tangled love lives. Weasley, you
stay here. Miss Granger, over there, beside Miss Parkinson. Potter — that
table in front of my desk. Move. Now.”

Furious, Harry threw his ingredients and his bag into his cauldron and
dragged it up to the front of the dungeon to the empty table. Snape
followed, sat down at his desk and watched Harry unload his cauldron.
Determined not to look at Snape, Harry resumed the mashing of his scarab
beetles, imagining each one to have Snape’s face.

“All this press attention seems to have inflated your already overlarge
head, Potter,” said Snape quietly, once the rest of the class had settled down
again.

Harry didn’t answer. He knew Snape was trying to provoke him; he had
done this before. No doubt he was hoping for an excuse to take a round fifty
points from Gryffindor before the end of the class.

“You might be laboring under the delusion that the entire Wizarding
world is impressed with you,” Snape went on, so quietly that no one else
could hear him (Harry continued to pound his scarab beetles, even though
he had already reduced them to a very fine powder), “but I don’t care how
many times your picture appears in the papers. To me, Potter, you are
nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to be beneath him.”
Harry tipped the powdered beetles into his cauldron and started cutting
up his ginger roots. His hands were shaking slightly out of anger, but he
kept his eyes down, as though he couldn’t hear what Snape was saying to
him.

“So I give you fair warning, Potter,” Snape continued in a softer and
more dangerous voice, “pint-sized celebrity or not — if I catch you
breaking into my office one more time —”

“I haven’t been anywhere near your office!” said Harry angrily,
forgetting his feigned deafness.
“Don’t lie to me,” Snape hissed, his fathomless black eyes boring into
Harry’s. “Boomslang skin. Gillyweed. Both come from my private stores,
and I know who stole them.”

Harry stared back at Snape, determined not to blink or to look guilty. In
truth, he hadn’t stolen either of these things from Snape. Hermione had
taken the boomslang skin back in their second year — they had needed it
for the Polyjuice Potion — and while Snape had suspected Harry at the
time, he had never been able to prove it. Dobby, of course, had stolen the
gillyweed.

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Harry lied coldly.
“You were out of bed on the night my office was broken into!” Snape
hissed. “I know it, Potter! Now, Mad-Eye Moody might have joined your
fan club, but I will not tolerate your behavior! One more nighttime stroll
into my office, Potter, and you will pay!”

“Right,” said Harry coolly, turning back to his ginger roots. “I’ll bear that
in mind if I ever get the urge to go in there.”

Snape’s eyes flashed. He plunged a hand into the inside of his black
robes. For one wild moment, Harry thought Snape was about to pull out his
wand and curse him — then he saw that Snape had drawn out a small
crystal bottle of a completely clear potion. Harry stared at it.
“Do you know what this is, Potter?” Snape said, his eyes glittering
dangerously again.

“No,” said Harry, with complete honesty this time.
“It is Veritaserum — a Truth Potion so powerful that three drops would
have you spilling your innermost secrets for this entire class to hear,” said
Snape viciously. “Now, the use of this potion is controlled by very strict
Ministry guidelines. But unless you watch your step, you might just find
that my hand slips” — he shook the crystal bottle slightly — “right over
your evening pumpkin juice. And then, Potter  .  .  . then we’ll find out
whether you’ve been in my office or not.”

Harry said nothing. He turned back to his ginger roots once more, picked
up his knife, and started slicing them again. He didn’t like the sound of that
Truth Potion at all, nor would he put it past Snape to slip him some. He
repressed a shudder at the thought of what might come spilling out of his
mouth if Snape did it . . . quite apart from landing a whole lot of people in
trouble — Hermione and Dobby for a start — there were all the other things
he was concealing . . . like the fact that he was in contact with Sirius . . . and
— his insides squirmed at the thought — how he felt about Cho. . . . He
tipped his ginger roots into the cauldron too, and wondered whether he
ought to take a leaf out of Moody’s book and start drinking only from a
private hip flask.

There was a knock on the dungeon door.
“Enter,” said Snape in his usual voice.

The class looked around as the door opened. Professor Karkaroff came
in. Everyone watched him as he walked up toward Snape’s desk. He was
twisting his finger around his goatee and looking agitated.
“We need to talk,” said Karkaroff abruptly when he had reached Snape.
He seemed so determined that nobody should hear what he was saying that
he was barely opening his lips; it was as though he were a rather poor
ventriloquist. Harry kept his eyes on his ginger roots, listening hard.
“I’ll talk to you after my lesson, Karkaroff,” Snape muttered, but
Karkaroff interrupted him.

“I want to talk now, while you can’t slip off, Severus. You’ve been
avoiding me.”

“After the lesson,” Snape snapped.
Under the pretext of holding up a measuring cup to see if he’d poured out
enough armadillo bile, Harry sneaked a sidelong glance at the pair of them.
Karkaroff looked extremely worried, and Snape looked angry.

Karkaroff hovered behind Snape’s desk for the rest of the double period.
He seemed intent on preventing Snape from slipping away at the end of
class. Keen to hear what Karkaroff wanted to say, Harry deliberately
knocked over his bottle of armadillo bile with two minutes to go to the bell,
which gave him an excuse to duck down behind his cauldron and mop up
while the rest of the class moved noisily toward the door.

“What’s so urgent?” he heard Snape hiss at Karkaroff.
“This,” said Karkaroff, and Harry, peering around the edge of his
cauldron, saw Karkaroff pull up the left-hand sleeve of his robe and show
Snape something on his inner forearm.

“Well?” said Karkaroff, still making every effort not to move his lips.
“Do you see? It’s never been this clear, never since —”
“Put it away!” snarled Snape, his black eyes sweeping the classroom.
“But you must have noticed —” Karkaroff began in an agitated voice.
“We can talk later, Karkaroff!” spat Snape. “Potter! What are you
doing?”

“Clearing up my armadillo bile, Professor,” said Harry innocently,
straightening up and showing Snape the sodden rag he was holding.
Karkaroff turned on his heel and strode out of the dungeon. He looked
both worried and angry. Not wanting to remain alone with an exceptionally
angry Snape, Harry threw his books and ingredients back into his bag and
left at top speed to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just witnessed.

They left the castle at noon the next day to find a weak silver sun shining
down upon the grounds. The weather was milder than it had been all year,
and by the time they arrived in Hogsmeade, all three of them had taken off
their cloaks and thrown them over their shoulders. The food Sirius had told
them to bring was in Harry’s bag; they had sneaked a dozen chicken legs, a
loaf of bread, and a flask of pumpkin juice from the lunch table.

They went into Gladrags Wizardwear to buy a present for Dobby, where
they had fun selecting the most lurid socks they could find, including a pair
patterned with flashing gold and silver stars, and another that screamed
loudly when they became too smelly. Then, at half past one, they made their
way up the High Street, past Dervish and Banges, and out toward the edge
of the village.

Harry had never been in this direction before. The winding lane was
leading them out into the wild countryside around Hogsmeade. The cottages
were fewer here, and their gardens larger; they were walking toward the
foot of the mountain in whose shadow Hogsmeade lay. Then they turned a
corner and saw a stile at the end of the lane. Waiting for them, its front paws
on the topmost bar, was a very large, shaggy black dog, which was carrying
some newspapers in its mouth and looking very familiar. . . .

“Hello, Sirius,” said Harry when they had reached him.
The black dog sniffed Harry’s bag eagerly, wagged its tail once, then
turned and began to trot away from them across the scrubby patch of
ground that rose to meet the rocky foot of the mountain. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione climbed over the stile and followed.

Sirius led them to the very foot of the mountain, where the ground was
covered with boulders and rocks. It was easy for him, with his four paws,
but Harry, Ron, and Hermione were soon out of breath. They followed
Sirius higher, up onto the mountain itself. For nearly half an hour they
climbed a steep, winding, and stony path, following Sirius’s wagging tail,
sweating in the sun, the shoulder straps of Harry’s bag cutting into his
shoulders.
Then, at last, Sirius slipped out of sight, and when they reached the place
where he had vanished, they saw a narrow fissure in the rock. They
squeezed into it and found themselves in a cool, dimly lit cave. Tethered at
the end of it, one end of his rope around a large rock, was Buckbeak the
hippogriff. Half gray horse, half giant eagle, Buckbeak’s fierce orange eye
flashed at the sight of them. All three of them bowed low to him, and after
regarding them imperiously for a moment, Buckbeak bent his scaly front
knees and allowed Hermione to rush forward and stroke his feathery neck.
Harry, however, was looking at the black dog, which had just turned into his
godfather.

Sirius was wearing ragged gray robes; the same ones he had been
wearing when he had left Azkaban. His black hair was longer than it had
been when he had appeared in the fire, and it was untidy and matted once
more. He looked very thin.

“Chicken!” he said hoarsely after removing the old Daily Prophets from
his mouth and throwing them down onto the cave floor.
Harry pulled open his bag and handed over the bundle of chicken legs
and bread.
“Thanks,” said Sirius, opening it, grabbing a drumstick, sitting down on
the cave floor, and tearing off a large chunk with his teeth. “I’ve been living
off rats mostly. Can’t steal too much food from Hogsmeade; I’d draw
attention to myself.”
He grinned up at Harry, but Harry returned the grin only reluctantly.
“What’re you doing here, Sirius?” he said.
“Fulfilling my duty as godfather,” said Sirius, gnawing on the chicken
bone in a very doglike way. “Don’t worry about it, I’m pretending to be a
lovable stray.”

He was still grinning, but seeing the anxiety in Harry’s face, said more
seriously, “I want to be on the spot. Your last letter . . . well, let’s just say
things are getting fishier. I’ve been stealing the paper every time someone
throws one out, and by the looks of things, I’m not the only one who’s
getting worried.”
He nodded at the yellowing Daily Prophets on the cave floor, and Ron
picked them up and unfolded them. Harry, however, continued to stare at
Sirius.

“What if they catch you? What if you’re seen?”
“You three and Dumbledore are the only ones around here who know I’m
an Animagus,” said Sirius, shrugging, and continuing to devour the chicken
leg.

Ron nudged Harry and passed him the Daily Prophets. There were two:
The first bore the headline Mystery Illness of Bartemius Crouch, the second,
Ministry Witch Still Missing — Minister of Magic Now Personally Involved.
Harry scanned the story about Crouch. Phrases jumped out at him: hasn’t
been seen in public since November  .  .  . house appears deserted  .  .  . St.
Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries decline comment . . .
Ministry refuses to confirm rumors of critical illness. . . .
“They’re making it sound like he’s dying,” said Harry slowly. “But he
can’t be that ill if he managed to get up here. . . .”

“My brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant,” Ron informed Sirius. “He
says Crouch is suffering from overwork.”
“Mind you, he did look ill, last time I saw him up close,” said Harry
slowly, still reading the story. “The night my name came out of the
goblet. . . .”

“Getting his comeuppance for sacking Winky, isn’t he?” said Hermione,
an edge to her voice. She was stroking Buckbeak, who was crunching up
Sirius’s chicken bones. “I bet he wishes he hadn’t done it now — bet he
feels the difference now she’s not there to look after him.”
“Hermione’s obsessed with house-elves,” Ron muttered to Sirius, casting
Hermione a dark look. Sirius, however, looked interested.
“Crouch sacked his house-elf?”
“Yeah, at the Quidditch World Cup,” said Harry, and he launched into the
story of the Dark Mark’s appearance, and Winky being found with Harry’s
wand clutched in her hand, and Mr. Crouch’s fury. When Harry had
finished, Sirius was on his feet again and had started pacing up and down
the cave.

“Let me get this straight,” he said after a while, brandishing a fresh
chicken leg. “You first saw the elf in the Top Box. She was saving Crouch a
seat, right?”

“Right,” said Harry, Ron, and Hermione together.
“But Crouch didn’t turn up for the match?”
“No,” said Harry. “I think he said he’d been too busy.”
Sirius paced all around the cave in silence. Then he said, “Harry, did you
check your pockets for your wand after you’d left the Top Box?”
“Erm . . .” Harry thought hard. “No,” he said finally. “I didn’t need to use
it before we got in the forest. And then I put my hand in my pocket, and all
that was in there were my Omnioculars.” He stared at Sirius. “Are you
saying whoever conjured the Mark stole my wand in the Top Box?”
“It’s possible,” said Sirius.
“Winky didn’t steal that wand!” Hermione insisted.
“The elf wasn’t the only one in that box,” said Sirius, his brow furrowed
as he continued to pace. “Who else was sitting behind you?”
“Loads of people,” said Harry. “Some Bulgarian ministers . . . Cornelius
Fudge . . . the Malfoys . . .”

“The Malfoys!” said Ron suddenly, so loudly that his voice echoed all
around the cave, and Buckbeak tossed his head nervously. “I bet it was
Lucius Malfoy!”
“Anyone else?” said Sirius.
“No one,” said Harry.
“Yes, there was, there was Ludo Bagman,” Hermione reminded him.
“Oh yeah . . .”
“I don’t know anything about Bagman except that he used to be Beater
for the Wimbourne Wasps,” said Sirius, still pacing. “What’s he like?”
“He’s okay,” said Harry. “He keeps offering to help me with the
Triwizard Tournament.”
“Does he, now?” said Sirius, frowning more deeply. “I wonder why he’d
do that?”
“Says he’s taken a liking to me,” said Harry.

“Hmm,” said Sirius, looking thoughtful.
“We saw him in the forest just before the Dark Mark appeared,”
Hermione told Sirius. “Remember?” she said to Harry and Ron.
“Yeah, but he didn’t stay in the forest, did he?” said Ron. “The moment
we told him about the riot, he went off to the campsite.”
“How d’you know?” Hermione shot back. “How d’you know where he
Disapparated to?”

“Come off it,” said Ron incredulously. “Are you saying you reckon Ludo
Bagman conjured the Dark Mark?”

“It’s more likely he did it than Winky,” said Hermione stubbornly.
“Told you,” said Ron, looking meaningfully at Sirius, “told you she’s
obsessed with house —”

But Sirius held up a hand to silence Ron.
“When the Dark Mark had been conjured, and the elf had been
discovered holding Harry’s wand, what did Crouch do?”
“Went to look in the bushes,” said Harry, “but there wasn’t anyone else
there.”

“Of course,” Sirius muttered, pacing up and down, “of course, he’d want
to pin it on anyone but his own elf . . . and then he sacked her?”
“Yes,” said Hermione in a heated voice, “he sacked her, just because she
hadn’t stayed in her tent and let herself get trampled —”
“Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!” said Ron.
Sirius shook his head and said, “She’s got the measure of Crouch better
than you have, Ron. If you want to know what a man’s like, take a good
look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.”

He ran a hand over his unshaven face, evidently thinking hard.
“All these absences of Barty Crouch’s  .  .  . he goes to the trouble of
making sure his house-elf saves him a seat at the Quidditch World Cup, but
doesn’t bother to turn up and watch. He works very hard to reinstate the
Triwizard Tournament, and then stops coming to that too. . . . It’s not like
Crouch. If he’s ever taken a day off work because of illness before this, I’ll
eat Buckbeak.”

“D’you know Crouch, then?” said Harry.
Sirius’s face darkened. He suddenly looked as menacing as he had the
night when Harry first met him, the night when Harry still believed Sirius to
be a murderer.
“Oh I know Crouch all right,” he said quietly. “He was the one who gave
the order for me to be sent to Azkaban — without a trial.”
“What?” said Ron and Hermione together.

“You’re kidding!” said Harry.
“No, I’m not,” said Sirius, taking another great bite of chicken. “Crouch
used to be Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, didn’t
you know?”

Harry, Ron, and Hermione shook their heads.
“He was tipped for the next Minister of Magic,” said Sirius. “He’s a great
wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully magical — and power-hungry. Oh never
a Voldemort supporter,” he said, reading the look on Harry’s face. “No,
Barty Crouch was always very outspoken against the Dark Side. But then a
lot of people who were against the Dark Side  .  .  . well, you wouldn’t
understand . . . you’re too young. . . .”

“That’s what my dad said at the World Cup,” said Ron, with a trace of
irritation in his voice. “Try us, why don’t you?”
A grin flashed across Sirius’s thin face.
“All right, I’ll try you. . . .” He walked once up the cave, back again, and
then said, “Imagine that Voldemort’s powerful now. You don’t know who
his supporters are, you don’t know who’s working for him and who isn’t;
you know he can control people so that they do terrible things without being
able to stop themselves. You’re scared for yourself, and your family, and
your friends. Every week, news comes of more deaths, more
disappearances, more torturing . . . the Ministry of Magic’s in disarray, they
don’t know what to do, they’re trying to keep everything hidden from the
Muggles, but meanwhile, Muggles are dying too. Terror everywhere  .  .  .
panic . . . confusion . . . that’s how it used to be.

“Well, times like that bring out the best in some people and the worst in
others. Crouch’s principles might’ve been good in the beginning — I
wouldn’t know. He rose quickly through the Ministry, and he started
ordering very harsh measures against Voldemort’s supporters. The Aurors
were given new powers — powers to kill rather than capture, for instance.
And I wasn’t the only one who was handed straight to the dementors
without trial. Crouch fought violence with violence, and authorized the use
of the Unforgivable Curses against suspects. I would say he became as
ruthless and cruel as many on the Dark Side. He had his supporters, mind
you — plenty of people thought he was going about things the right way,
and there were a lot of witches and wizards clamoring for him to take over
as Minister of Magic. When Voldemort disappeared, it looked like only a
matter of time until Crouch got the top job. But then something rather
unfortunate happened. . . .” Sirius smiled grimly. “Crouch’s own son was
caught with a group of Death Eaters who’d managed to talk their way out of
Azkaban. Apparently they were trying to find Voldemort and return him to
power.”

“Crouch’s son was caught?” gasped Hermione.
“Yep,” said Sirius, throwing his chicken bone to Buckbeak, flinging
himself back down on the ground beside the loaf of bread, and tearing it in
half. “Nasty little shock for old Barty, I’d imagine. Should have spent a bit
more time at home with his family, shouldn’t he? Ought to have left the
office early once in a while . . . gotten to know his own son.”

He began to wolf down large pieces of bread.
“Was his son a Death Eater?” said Harry.
“No idea,” said Sirius, still stuffing down bread. “I was in Azkaban
myself when he was brought in. This is mostly stuff I’ve found out since I
got out. The boy was definitely caught in the company of people I’d bet my
life were Death Eaters — but he might have been in the wrong place at the
wrong time, just like the house-elf.”
“Did Crouch try and get his son off?” Hermione whispered.

Sirius let out a laugh that was much more like a bark.
“Crouch let his son off? I thought you had the measure of him,
Hermione! Anything that threatened to tarnish his reputation had to go; he
had dedicated his whole life to becoming Minister of Magic. You saw him
dismiss a devoted house-elf because she associated him with the Dark Mark
again — doesn’t that tell you what he’s like? Crouch’s fatherly affection
stretched just far enough to give his son a trial, and by all accounts, it
wasn’t much more than an excuse for Crouch to show how much he hated
the boy . . . then he sent him straight to Azkaban.”

“He gave his own son to the dementors?” asked Harry quietly.
“That’s right,” said Sirius, and he didn’t look remotely amused now. “I
saw the dementors bringing him in, watched them through the bars in my
cell door. He can’t have been more than nineteen. They took him into a cell
near mine. He was screaming for his mother by nightfall. He went quiet
after a few days, though . . . they all went quiet in the end . . . except when
they shrieked in their sleep. . . .”

For a moment, the deadened look in Sirius’s eyes became more
pronounced than ever, as though shutters had closed behind them.
“So he’s still in Azkaban?” Harry said.
“No,” said Sirius dully. “No, he’s not in there anymore. He died about a
year after they brought him in.”
“He died?”

“He wasn’t the only one,” said Sirius bitterly. “Most go mad in there, and
plenty stop eating in the end. They lose the will to live. You could always
tell when a death was coming, because the dementors could sense it, they
got excited. That boy looked pretty sickly when he arrived. Crouch being an
important Ministry member, he and his wife were allowed a deathbed visit.
That was the last time I saw Barty Crouch, half carrying his wife past my
cell. She died herself, apparently, shortly afterward. Grief. Wasted away just
like the boy. Crouch never came for his son’s body. The dementors buried
him outside the fortress; I watched them do it.”

Sirius threw aside the bread he had just lifted to his mouth and instead
picked up the flask of pumpkin juice and drained it.
“So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he had it made,” he
continued, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. “One moment, a
hero, poised to become Minister of Magic . . . next, his son dead, his wife
dead, the family name dishonored, and, so I’ve heard since I escaped, a big
drop in popularity. Once the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more
sympathetic toward the son and started asking how a nice young lad from a
good family had gone so badly astray. The conclusion was that his father
never cared much for him. So Cornelius Fudge got the top job, and Crouch
was shunted sideways into the Department of International Magical
Cooperation.”

There was a long silence. Harry was thinking of the way Crouch’s eyes
had bulged as he’d looked down at his disobedient house-elf back in the
wood at the Quidditch World Cup. This, then, must have been why Crouch
had overreacted to Winky being found beneath the Dark Mark. It had
brought back memories of his son, and the old scandal, and his fall from
grace at the Ministry.

“Moody says Crouch is obsessed with catching Dark wizards,” Harry
told Sirius.
“Yeah, I’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with him,” said Sirius,
nodding. “If you ask me, he still thinks he can bring back the old popularity
by catching one more Death Eater.”
“And he sneaked up here to search Snape’s office!” said Ron
triumphantly, looking at Hermione.

“Yes, and that doesn’t make sense at all,” said Sirius.
“Yeah, it does!” said Ron excitedly, but Sirius shook his head.
“Listen, if Crouch wants to investigate Snape, why hasn’t he been
coming to judge the tournament? It would be an ideal excuse to make
regular visits to Hogwarts and keep an eye on him.”
“So you think Snape could be up to something, then?” asked Harry, but
Hermione broke in.

“Look, I don’t care what you say, Dumbledore trusts Snape —”
“Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” said Ron impatiently. “I know
Dumbledore’s brilliant and everything, but that doesn’t mean a really clever
Dark wizard couldn’t fool him —”
“Why did Snape save Harry’s life in the first year, then? Why didn’t he
just let him die?”
“I dunno — maybe he thought Dumbledore would kick him out —”
“What d’you think, Sirius?” Harry said loudly, and Ron and Hermione
stopped bickering to listen.

“I think they’ve both got a point,” said Sirius, looking thoughtfully at
Ron and Hermione. “Ever since I found out Snape was teaching here, I’ve
wondered why Dumbledore hired him. Snape’s always been fascinated by
the Dark Arts, he was famous for it at school. Slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid,
he was,” Sirius added, and Harry and Ron grinned at each other. “Snape
knew more curses when he arrived at school than half the kids in seventh
year, and he was part of a gang of Slytherins who nearly all turned out to be
Death Eaters.”

Sirius held up his fingers and began ticking off names.
“Rosier and Wilkes — they were both killed by Aurors the year before
Voldemort fell. The Lestranges — they’re a married couple — they’re in
Azkaban. Avery — from what I’ve heard he wormed his way out of trouble
by saying he’d been acting under the Imperius Curse — he’s still at large.
But as far as I know, Snape was never even accused of being a Death Eater
— not that that means much. Plenty of them were never caught. And
Snape’s certainly clever and cunning enough to keep himself out of
trouble.”

“Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to keep that quiet,”
said Ron.
“Yeah, you should’ve seen Snape’s face when Karkaroff turned up in
Potions yesterday!” said Harry quickly. “Karkaroff wanted to talk to Snape,
he says Snape’s been avoiding him. Karkaroff looked really worried. He
showed Snape something on his arm, but I couldn’t see what it was.”
“He showed Snape something on his arm?” said Sirius, looking frankly
bewildered. He ran his fingers distractedly through his filthy hair, then
shrugged again. “Well, I’ve no idea what that’s about . . . but if Karkaroff’s
genuinely worried, and he’s going to Snape for answers . . .”
Sirius stared at the cave wall, then made a grimace of frustration.
“There’s still the fact that Dumbledore trusts Snape, and I know
Dumbledore trusts where a lot of other people wouldn’t, but I just can’t see
him letting Snape teach at Hogwarts if he’d ever worked for Voldemort.”
“Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get into Snape’s office then?”
said Ron stubbornly.

“Well,” said Sirius slowly, “I wouldn’t put it past Mad-Eye to have
searched every single teacher’s office when he got to Hogwarts. He takes
his Defense Against the Dark Arts seriously, Moody. I’m not sure he trusts
anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, it’s not surprising. I’ll say this
for Moody, though, he never killed if he could help it. Always brought
people in alive where possible. He was tough, but he never descended to the
level of the Death Eaters. Crouch, though . . . he’s a different matter . . . is
he really ill? If he is, why did he make the effort to drag himself up to
Snape’s office? And if he’s not . . . what’s he up to? What was he doing at
the World Cup that was so important he didn’t turn up in the Top Box?
What’s he been doing while he should have been judging the tournament?”
Sirius lapsed into silence, still staring at the cave wall. Buckbeak was
ferreting around on the rocky floor, looking for bones he might have
overlooked. Finally, Sirius looked up at Ron.

“You say your brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant? Any chance you
could ask him if he’s seen Crouch lately?”
“I can try,” said Ron doubtfully. “Better not make it sound like I reckon
Crouch is up to anything dodgy, though. Percy loves Crouch.”
“And you might try and find out whether they’ve got any leads on Bertha
Jorkins while you’re at it,” said Sirius, gesturing to the second copy of the
Daily Prophet.

“Bagman told me they hadn’t,” said Harry.
“Yes, he’s quoted in the article in there,” said Sirius, nodding at the paper.
“Blustering on about how bad Bertha’s memory is. Well, maybe she’s
changed since I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn’t forgetful at all —
quite the reverse. She was a bit dim, but she had an excellent memory for
gossip. It used to get her into a lot of trouble; she never knew when to keep
her mouth shut. I can see her being a bit of a liability at the Ministry of
Magic . . . maybe that’s why Bagman didn’t bother to look for her for so
long. . . .”

Sirius heaved an enormous sigh and rubbed his shadowed eyes.
“What’s the time?”
Harry checked his watch, then remembered it hadn’t been working since
it had spent over an hour in the lake.
“It’s half past three,” said Hermione.
“You’d better get back to school,” Sirius said, getting to his feet. “Now
listen  .  .  .” He looked particularly hard at Harry. “I don’t want you lot
sneaking out of school to see me, all right? Just send notes to me here. I still
want to hear about anything odd. But you’re not to go leaving Hogwarts
without permission; it would be an ideal opportunity for someone to attack
you.”

“No one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon and a couple of
grindylows,” Harry said, but Sirius scowled at him.
“I don’t care . . . I’ll breathe freely again when this tournament’s over,
and that’s not until June. And don’t forget, if you’re talking about me
among yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?”
He handed Harry the empty napkin and flask and went to pat Buckbeak
good-bye. “I’ll walk to the edge of the village with you,” said Sirius, “see if
I can scrounge another paper.”

He transformed into the great black dog before they left the cave, and
they walked back down the mountainside with him, across the boulderstrewn ground, and back to the stile. Here he allowed each of them to pat
him on the head, before turning and setting off at a run around the outskirts
of the village. Harry, Ron, and Hermione made their way back into
Hogsmeade and up toward Hogwarts.
“Wonder if Percy knows all that stuff about Crouch?” Ron said as they
walked up the drive to the castle. “But maybe he doesn’t care  .  .  . it’d
probably just make him admire Crouch even more. Yeah, Percy loves rules.
He’d just say Crouch was refusing to break them for his own son.”
“Percy would never throw any of his family to the dementors,” said
Hermione severely.

“I don’t know,” said Ron. “If he thought we were standing in the way of
his career . . . Percy’s really ambitious, you know. . . .”
They walked up the stone steps into the entrance hall, where the delicious
smells of dinner wafted toward them from the Great Hall.
“Poor old Snuffles,” said Ron, breathing deeply. “He must really like
you, Harry. . . . Imagine having to live off rats.”


CHAPTER ELEVEN

THE DUELING CLUB

arry woke up on Sunday morning to find the dormitory blazing with
winter sunlight and his arm reboned but very stiff. He sat up
quickly and looked over at Colin’s bed, but it had been blocked from view
by the high curtains Harry had changed behind yesterday. Seeing that he
was awake, Madam Pomfrey came bustling over with a breakfast tray and
then began bending and stretching his arm and fingers.
“All in order,” she said as he clumsily fed himself porridge left-handed.
“When you’ve finished eating, you may leave.”

Harry dressed as quickly as he could and hurried off to Gryffindor
Tower, desperate to tell Ron and Hermione about Colin and Dobby, but
they weren’t there. Harry left to look for them, wondering where they
could have got to and feeling slightly hurt that they weren’t interested in
whether he had his bones back or not.

As Harry passed the library, Percy Weasley strolled out of it, looking in
far better spirits than last time they’d met.
“Oh, hello, Harry,” he said. “Excellent flying yesterday, really excellent.
Gryffindor has just taken the lead for the House Cup — you earned fifty
points!”
“You haven’t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?” said Harry.

“No, I haven’t,” said Percy, his smile fading. “I hope Ron’s not in
another girls’ toilet. . . .”
Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy walk out of sight, and then headed
straight for Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. He couldn’t see why Ron and
Hermione would be in there again, but after making sure that neither Filch
nor any prefects were around, he opened the door and heard their voices
coming from a locked stall.

“It’s me,” he said, closing the door behind him. There was a clunk, a
splash, and a gasp from within the stall and he saw Hermione’s eye peering
through the keyhole.

“Harry!” she said. “You gave us such a fright — come in — how’s your
arm?”

“Fine,” said Harry, squeezing into the stall. An old cauldron was
perched on the toilet, and a crackling from under the rim told Harry they
had lit a fire beneath it. Conjuring up portable, waterproof fires was a
speciality of Hermione’s.
“We’d’ve come to meet you, but we decided to get started on the
Polyjuice Potion,” Ron explained as Harry, with difficulty, locked the stall
again. “We’ve decided this is the safest place to hide it.”
Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione interrupted.

“We already know — we heard Professor McGonagall telling Professor
Flitwick this morning. That’s why we decided we’d better get going —”
“The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the better,” snarled Ron.
“D’you know what I think? He was in such a foul temper after the
Quidditch match, he took it out on Colin.”

“There’s something else,” said Harry, watching Hermione tearing
bundles of knotgrass and throwing them into the potion. “Dobby came to
visit me in the middle of the night.”

Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told them everything
Dobby had told him — or hadn’t told him. Hermione and Ron listened
with their mouths open.

“The Chamber of Secrets has been opened before?” Hermione said.
“This settles it,” said Ron in a triumphant voice. “Lucius Malfoy
must’ve opened the Chamber when he was at school here and now he’s
told dear old Draco how to do it. It’s obvious. Wish Dobby’d told you what
kind of monster’s in there, though. I want to know how come nobody’s
noticed it sneaking around the school.”

“Maybe it can make itself invisible,” said Hermione, prodding leeches
to the bottom of the cauldron. “Or maybe it can disguise itself — pretend
to be a suit of armor or something — I’ve read about Chameleon Ghouls
—”

“You read too much, Hermione,” said Ron, pouring dead lacewings on
top of the leeches. He crumpled up the empty lacewing bag and looked at
Harry.

“So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and broke your
arm. . . .” He shook his head. “You know what, Harry? If he doesn’t stop
trying to save your life he’s going to kill you.”

The news that Colin Creevey had been attacked and was now lying as
though dead in the hospital wing had spread through the entire school by
Monday morning. The air was suddenly thick with rumor and suspicion.
The first years were now moving around the castle in tight-knit groups, as
though scared they would be attacked if they ventured forth alone.

Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in Charms, was
distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and George were going the wrong way
about cheering her up. They were taking turns covering themselves with
fur or boils and jumping out at her from behind statues. They only stopped
when Percy, apoplectic with rage, told them he was going to write to Mrs.
Weasley and tell her Ginny was having nightmares.

Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade in talismans,
amulets, and other protective devices was sweeping the school. Neville
Longbottom bought a large, evil-smelling green onion, a pointed purple
crystal, and a rotting newt tail before the other Gryffindor boys pointed
out that he was in no danger; he was a pureblood, and therefore unlikely to
be attacked.

“They went for Filch first,” Neville said, his round face fearful. “And
everyone knows I’m almost a Squib.”

In the second week of December Professor McGonagall came around as
usual, collecting names of those who would be staying at school for
Christmas. Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list; they had heard that
Malfoy was staying, which struck them as very suspicious. The holidays
would be the perfect time to use the Polyjuice Potion and try to worm a
confession out of him.

Unfortunately, the potion was only half finished. They still needed the
bicorn horn and the boomslang skin, and the only place they were going to
get them was from Snape’s private stores. Harry privately felt he’d rather
face Slytherin’s legendary monster than let Snape catch him robbing his
office.

“What we need,” said Hermione briskly as Thursday afternoon’s double
Potions lesson loomed nearer, “is a diversion. Then one of us can sneak
into Snape’s office and take what we need.”
Harry and Ron looked at her nervously.

“I think I’d better do the actual stealing,” Hermione continued in a
matter-of-fact tone. “You two will be expelled if you get into any more
trouble, and I’ve got a clean record. So all you need to do is cause enough
mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes or so.”

Harry smiled feebly. Deliberately causing mayhem in Snape’s Potions
class was about as safe as poking a sleeping dragon in the eye.
Potions lessons took place in one of the large dungeons. Thursday
afternoon’s lesson proceeded in the usual way. Twenty cauldrons stood
steaming between the wooden desks, on which stood brass scales and jars
of ingredients. Snape prowled through the fumes, making waspish remarks
about the Gryffindors’ work while the Slytherins sniggered appreciatively.
Draco Malfoy, who was Snape’s favorite student, kept flicking puffer-fish
eyes at Ron and Harry, who knew that if they retaliated they would get
detention faster than you could say “Unfair.”

Harry’s Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he had his mind on
more important things. He was waiting for Hermione’s signal, and he
hardly listened as Snape paused to sneer at his watery potion. When Snape
turned and walked off to bully Neville, Hermione caught Harry’s eye and
nodded.

Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldron, pulled one of Fred’s
Filibuster fireworks out of his pocket, and gave it a quick prod with his
wand. The firework began to fizz and sputter. Knowing he had only
seconds, Harry straightened up, took aim, and lobbed it into the air; it
landed right on target in Goyle’s cauldron.

Goyle’s potion exploded, showering the whole class. People shrieked as
splashes of the Swelling Solution hit them. Malfoy got a faceful and his
nose began to swell like a balloon; Goyle blundered around, his hands over
his eyes, which had expanded to the size of a dinner plate — Snape was
trying to restore calm and find out what had happened. Through the
confusion, Harry saw Hermione slip quietly into Snape’s office.

“Silence! SILENCE!” Snape roared. “Anyone who has been splashed,
come here for a Deflating Draught — when I find out who did this —”
Harry tried not to laugh as he watched Malfoy hurry forward, his head
drooping with the weight of a nose like a small melon. As half the class
lumbered up to Snape’s desk, some weighted down with arms like clubs,
others unable to talk through gigantic puffed-up lips, Harry saw Hermione
slide back into the dungeon, the front of her robes bulging.

When everyone had taken a swig of antidote and the various swellings
had subsided, Snape swept over to Goyle’s cauldron and scooped out the
twisted black remains of the firework. There was a sudden hush.
“If I ever find out who threw this,” Snape whispered, “I shall make sure
that person is expelled.”

Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a puzzled expression.
Snape was looking right at him, and the bell that rang ten minutes later
could not have been more welcome.

“He knew it was me,” Harry told Ron and Hermione as they hurried
back to Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. “I could tell.”
Hermione threw the new ingredients into the cauldron and began to stir
feverishly.

“It’ll be ready in two weeks,” she said happily.
“Snape can’t prove it was you,” said Ron reassuringly to Harry. “What
can he do?”
“Knowing Snape, something foul,” said Harry as the potion frothed and
bubbled.

A week later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were walking across the entrance
hall when they saw a small knot of people gathered around the notice
board, reading a piece of parchment that had just been pinned up. Seamus
Finnigan and Dean Thomas beckoned them over, looking excited.
“They’re starting a Dueling Club!” said Seamus. “First meeting tonight!
I wouldn’t mind dueling lessons; they might come in handy one of these
days. . . .”

“What, you reckon Slytherin’s monster can duel?” said Ron, but he, too,
read the sign with interest.
“Could be useful,” he said to Harry and Hermione as they went into
dinner. “Shall we go?”

Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o’clock that evening they
hurried back to the Great Hall. The long dining tables had vanished and a
golden stage had appeared along one wall, lit by thousands of candles
floating overhead. The ceiling was velvety black once more and most of
the school seemed to be packed beneath it, all carrying their wands and
looking excited.

“I wonder who’ll be teaching us?” said Hermione as they edged into the
chattering crowd. “Someone told me Flitwick was a dueling champion
when he was young — maybe it’ll be him.”

“As long as it’s not —” Harry began, but he ended on a groan: Gilderoy
Lockhart was walking onto the stage, resplendent in robes of deep plum
and accompanied by none other than Snape, wearing his usual black.
Lockhart waved an arm for silence and called, “Gather round, gather
round! Can everyone see me? Can you all hear me? Excellent!
“Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me permission to start this
little dueling club, to train you all in case you ever need to defend
yourselves as I myself have done on countless occasions — for full
details, see my published works.

“Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape,” said Lockhart,
flashing a wide smile. “He tells me he knows a tiny little bit about dueling
himself and has sportingly agreed to help me with a short demonstration
before we begin. Now, I don’t want any of you youngsters to worry —
you’ll still have your Potions master when I’m through with him, never
fear!”

“Wouldn’t it be good if they finished each other off?” Ron muttered in
Harry’s ear.
Snape’s upper lip was curling. Harry wondered why Lockhart was still
smiling; if Snape had been looking at him like that he’d have been running
as fast as he could in the opposite direction.
Lockhart and Snape turned to face each other and bowed; at least,
Lockhart did, with much twirling of his hands, whereas Snape jerked his
head irritably. Then they raised their wands like swords in front of them.
“As you see, we are holding our wands in the accepted combative
position,” Lockhart told the silent crowd. “On the count of three, we will
cast our first spells. Neither of us will be aiming to kill, of course.”
“I wouldn’t bet on that,” Harry murmured, watching Snape baring his
teeth.

“One — two — three —”
Both of them swung their wands above their heads and pointed them at
their opponent; Snape cried: “Expelliarmus!” There was a dazzling flash
of scarlet light and Lockhart was blasted off his feet: He flew backward
off the stage, smashed into the wall, and slid down it to sprawl on the
floor.

Malfoy and some of the other Slytherins cheered. Hermione was
dancing on tiptoes. “Do you think he’s all right?” she squealed through her
fingers.

“Who cares?” said Harry and Ron together.
Lockhart was getting unsteadily to his feet. His hat had fallen off and
his wavy hair was standing on end.

“Well, there you have it!” he said, tottering back onto the platform.
“That was a Disarming Charm — as you see, I’ve lost my wand — ah,
thank you, Miss Brown — yes, an excellent idea to show them that,
Professor Snape, but if you don’t mind my saying so, it was very obvious
what you were about to do. If I had wanted to stop you it would have been
only too easy — however, I felt it would be instructive to let them see . . .”
Snape was looking murderous. Possibly Lockhart had noticed, because
he said, “Enough demonstrating! I’m going to come amongst you now and
put you all into pairs. Professor Snape, if you’d like to help me —”
They moved through the crowd, matching up partners. Lockhart teamed
Neville with Justin Finch-Fletchley, but Snape reached Harry and Ron
first.

“Time to split up the dream team, I think,” he sneered. “Weasley, you
can partner Finnigan. Potter —”
Harry moved automatically toward Hermione.

“I don’t think so,” said Snape, smiling coldly. “Mr. Malfoy, come over
here. Let’s see what you make of the famous Potter. And you, Miss
Granger — you can partner Miss Bulstrode.”
Malfoy strutted over, smirking. Behind him walked a Slytherin girl who
reminded Harry of a picture he’d seen in Holidays with Hags. She was
large and square and her heavy jaw jutted aggressively. Hermione gave her
a weak smile that she did not return.
“Face your partners!” called Lockhart, back on the platform. “And
bow!”

Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not taking their eyes off
each other.
“Wands at the ready!” shouted Lockhart. “When I count to three, cast
your charms to Disarm your opponents — only to disarm them — we
don’t want any accidents — one . . . two . . . three —”
Harry swung his wand high, but Malfoy had already started on “two”:
His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as though he’d been hit over the head
with a saucepan. He stumbled, but everything still seemed to be working,
and wasting no more time, Harry pointed his wand straight at Malfoy and
shouted, “Rictusempra!”
A jet of silver light hit Malfoy in the stomach and he doubled up,
wheezing.

“I said Disarm only!” Lockhart shouted in alarm over the heads of the
battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his knees; Harry had hit him with a
Tickling Charm, and he could barely move for laughing. Harry hung back,
with a vague feeling it would be unsporting to bewitch Malfoy while he
was on the floor, but this was a mistake; gasping for breath, Malfoy
pointed his wand at Harry’s knees, choked, “Tarantallegra!” and the next
second Harry’s legs began to jerk around out of his control in a kind of
quickstep.

“Stop! Stop!” screamed Lockhart, but Snape took charge.
“Finite Incantatem!” he shouted; Harry’s feet stopped dancing, Malfoy
stopped laughing, and they were able to look up.

A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the scene. Both Neville
and Justin were lying on the floor, panting; Ron was holding up an ashenfaced Seamus, apologizing for whatever his broken wand had done; but
Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still moving; Millicent had
Hermione in a headlock and Hermione was whimpering in pain; both their
wands lay forgotten on the floor. Harry leapt forward and pulled Millicent
off. It was difficult: She was a lot bigger than he was.

“Dear, dear,” said Lockhart, skittering through the crowd, looking at the
aftermath of the duels. “Up you go, Macmillan. . . . Careful there, Miss
Fawcett. . . . Pinch it hard, it’ll stop bleeding in a second, Boot —
“I think I’d better teach you how to block unfriendly spells,” said
Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst of the hall. He glanced at Snape,
whose black eyes glinted, and looked quickly away. “Let’s have a
volunteer pair — Longbottom and Finch-Fletchley, how about you —”

“A bad idea, Professor Lockhart,” said Snape, gliding over like a large
and malevolent bat. “Longbottom causes devastation with the simplest
spells. We’ll be sending what’s left of Finch-Fletchley up to the hospital
wing in a matchbox.” Neville’s round, pink face went pinker. “How about
Malfoy and Potter?” said Snape with a twisted smile.

“Excellent idea!” said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and Malfoy into the
middle of the hall as the crowd backed away to give them room.
“Now, Harry,” said Lockhart. “When Draco points his wand at you, you
do this.”

He raised his own wand, attempted a complicated sort of wiggling
action, and dropped it. Snape smirked as Lockhart quickly picked it up,
saying, “Whoops — my wand is a little overexcited —”
Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down, and whispered something in
his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. Harry looked up nervously at Lockhart and
said, “Professor, could you show me that blocking thing again?”
“Scared?” muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldn’t hear him.
“You wish,” said Harry out of the corner of his mouth.
Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. “Just do what I did,
Harry!”

“What, drop my wand?”
But Lockhart wasn’t listening.
“Three — two — one — go!” he shouted.
Malfoy raised his wand quickly and bellowed, “Serpensortia!”
The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, as a long black
snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them, and raised
itself, ready to strike. There were screams as the crowd backed swiftly
away, clearing the floor.

“Don’t move, Potter,” said Snape lazily, clearly enjoying the sight of
Harry standing motionless, eye to eye with the angry snake. “I’ll get rid of
it. . . .”

“Allow me!” shouted Lockhart. He brandished his wand at the snake and
there was a loud bang; the snake, instead of vanishing, flew ten feet into
the air and fell back to the floor with a loud smack. Enraged, hissing
furiously, it slithered straight toward Justin Finch-Fletchley and raised
itself again, fangs exposed, poised to strike.

Harry wasn’t sure what made him do it. He wasn’t even aware of
deciding to do it. All he knew was that his legs were carrying him forward
as though he was on casters and that he had shouted stupidly at the snake,
“Leave him alone!” And miraculously — inexplicably — the snake
slumped to the floor, docile as a thick, black garden hose, its eyes now on
Harry. Harry felt the fear drain out of him. He knew the snake wouldn’t
attack anyone now, though how he knew it, he couldn’t have explained.
He looked up at Justin, grinning, expecting to see Justin looking
relieved, or puzzled, or even grateful — but certainly not angry and
scared.

“What do you think you’re playing at?” he shouted, and before Harry
could say anything, Justin had turned and stormed out of the hall.
Snape stepped forward, waved his wand, and the snake vanished in a
small puff of black smoke. Snape, too, was looking at Harry in an
unexpected way: It was a shrewd and calculating look, and Harry didn’t
like it. He was also dimly aware of an ominous muttering all around the
walls. Then he felt a tugging on the back of his robes.

“Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear. “Move — come on —”
Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hurrying alongside them. As
they went through the doors, the people on either side drew away as
though they were frightened of catching something. Harry didn’t have a
clue what was going on, and neither Ron nor Hermione explained anything
until they had dragged him all the way up to the empty Gryffindor
common room. Then Ron pushed Harry into an armchair and said, “You’re
a Parselmouth. Why didn’t you tell us?”
“I’m a what?” said Harry.

“A Parselmouth!” said Ron. “You can talk to snakes!”
“I know,” said Harry. “I mean, that’s only the second time I’ve ever done
it. I accidentally set a boa constrictor on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once
— long story — but it was telling me it had never seen Brazil and I sort of
set it free without meaning to — that was before I knew I was a wizard —”
“A boa constrictor told you it had never seen Brazil?” Ron repeated
faintly.

“So?” said Harry. “I bet loads of people here can do it.”
“Oh, no they can’t,” said Ron. “It’s not a very common gift. Harry, this
is bad.”

“What’s bad?” said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. “What’s wrong
with everyone? Listen, if I hadn’t told that snake not to attack Justin —”
“Oh, that’s what you said to it?”
“What d’you mean? You were there — you heard me —”
“I heard you speaking Parseltongue,” said Ron. “Snake language. You
could have been saying anything — no wonder Justin panicked, you
sounded like you were egging the snake on or something — it was creepy,
you know —”

Harry gaped at him.
“I spoke a different language? But — I didn’t realize — how can I speak
a language without knowing I can speak it?”
Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were looking as though
someone had died. Harry couldn’t see what was so terrible.

“D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stopping a massive snake
biting off Justin’s head?” he said. “What does it matter how I did it as long
as Justin doesn’t have to join the Headless Hunt?”
“It matters,” said Hermione, speaking at last in a hushed voice,
“because being able to talk to snakes was what Salazar Slytherin was
famous for. That’s why the symbol of Slytherin House is a serpent.”
Harry’s mouth fell open.

“Exactly,” said Ron. “And now the whole school’s going to think you’re
his great-great-great-great-grandson or something —”
“But I’m not,” said Harry, with a panic he couldn’t quite explain.
“You’ll find that hard to prove,” said Hermione. “He lived about a
thousand years ago; for all we know, you could be.”

Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap in the curtains around
his four-poster he watched snow starting to drift past the tower window
and wondered . . .

Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin? He didn’t know anything
about his father’s family, after all. The Dursleys had always forbidden
questions about his Wizarding relatives.
Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. The words
wouldn’t come. It seemed he had to be face-to-face with a snake to do it.
But I’m in Gryffindor, Harry thought.The Sorting Hat wouldn’t have put
me in here if I had Slytherin blood. . . .

Ah, said a nasty little voice in his brain, but the Sorting Hat wanted to
put you in Slytherin, don’t you remember?

Harry turned over. He’d see Justin the next day in Herbology and he’d
explain that he’d been calling the snake off, not egging it on, which (he
thought angrily, pummeling his pillow) any fool should have realized.
By next morning, however, the snow that had begun in the night had
turned into a blizzard so thick that the last Herbology lesson of the term
was canceled: Professor Sprout wanted to fit socks and scarves on the
Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust to no one else, now that it
was so important for the Mandrakes to grow quickly and revive Mrs.
Norris and Colin Creevey.

Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the Gryffindor common room,
while Ron and Hermione used their time off to play a game of wizard
chess.

“For heaven’s sake, Harry,” said Hermione, exasperated, as one of Ron’s
bishops wrestled her knight off his horse and dragged him off the board.
“Go and find Justin if it’s so important to you.”
So Harry got up and left through the portrait hole, wondering where
Justin might be.

The castle was darker than it usually was in daytime because of the
thick, swirling gray snow at every window. Shivering, Harry walked past
classrooms where lessons were taking place, catching snatches of what
was happening within. Professor McGonagall was shouting at someone
who, by the sound of it, had turned his friend into a badger. Resisting the
urge to take a look, Harry walked on by, thinking that Justin might be
using his free time to catch up on some work, and deciding to check the
library first.

A group of the Hufflepuffs who should have been in Herbology were
indeed sitting at the back of the library, but they didn’t seem to be
working. Between the long lines of high bookshelves, Harry could see that
their heads were close together and they were having what looked like an
absorbing conversation. He couldn’t see whether Justin was among them.

He was walking toward them when something of what they were saying
met his ears, and he paused to listen, hidden in the Invisibility section.
“So anyway,” a stout boy was saying, “I told Justin to hide up in our
dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter’s marked him down as his next victim,
it’s best if he keeps a low profile for a while. Of course, Justin’s been
waiting for something like this to happen ever since he let slip to Potter he
was Muggle-born. Justin actually told him he’d been down for Eton. That’s
not the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin’s heir on the loose, is
it?”

“You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?” said a girl with blonde
pigtails anxiously.

“Hannah,” said the stout boy solemnly, “he’s a Parselmouth. Everyone
knows that’s the mark of a Dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent
one who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin himself Serpenttongue.”
There was some heavy murmuring at this, and Ernie went on,
“Remember what was written on the wall? Enemies of the Heir, Beware.

Potter had some sort of run-in with Filch. Next thing we know, Filch’s cat’s
attacked. That first year, Creevey, was annoying Potter at the Quidditch
match, taking pictures of him while he was lying in the mud. Next thing
we know — Creevey’s been attacked.”

“He always seems so nice, though,” said Hannah uncertainly, “and, well,
he’s the one who made You-Know-Who disappear. He can’t be all bad, can
he?”

Ernie lowered his voice mysteriously, the Hufflepuffs bent closer, and
Harry edged nearer so that he could catch Ernie’s words.
“No one knows how he survived that attack by You-Know-Who. I mean
to say, he was only a baby when it happened. He should have been blasted
into smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark wizard could have survived
a curse like that.” He dropped his voice until it was barely more than a
whisper, and said, “That’s probably why You-Know-Who wanted to kill
him in the first place. Didn’t want another Dark Lord competing with him.
I wonder what other powers Potter’s been hiding?”

Harry couldn’t take anymore. Clearing his throat loudly, he stepped out
from behind the bookshelves. If he hadn’t been feeling so angry, he would
have found the sight that greeted him funny: Every one of the Hufflepuffs
looked as though they had been Petrified by the sight of him, and the color
was draining out of Ernie’s face.

“Hello,” said Harry. “I’m looking for Justin Finch-Fletchley.”
The Hufflepuffs’ worst fears had clearly been confirmed. They all
looked fearfully at Ernie.

“What do you want with him?” said Ernie in a quavering voice.
“I wanted to tell him what really happened with that snake at the
Dueling Club,” said Harry.
Ernie bit his white lips and then, taking a deep breath, said, “We were
all there. We saw what happened.”
“Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake backed off?” said
Harry.

“All I saw,” said Ernie stubbornly, though he was trembling as he spoke,
“was you speaking Parseltongue and chasing the snake toward Justin.”
“I didn’t chase it at him!” Harry said, his voice shaking with anger. “It
didn’t even touch him!”
“It was a very near miss,” said Ernie. “And in case you’re getting
ideas,” he added hastily, “I might tell you that you can trace my family
back through nine generations of witches and warlocks and my blood’s as
pure as anyone’s, so —”

“I don’t care what sort of blood you’ve got!” said Harry fiercely. “Why
would I want to attack Muggle-borns?”
“I’ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with,” said Ernie swiftly.
“It’s not possible to live with the Dursleys and not hate them,” said
Harry. “I’d like to see you try it.”
He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, earning himself a
reproving glare from Madam Pince, who was polishing the gilded cover of
a large spell book.

Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing where he was going, he
was in such a fury. The result was that he walked into something very large
and solid, which knocked him backward onto the floor.
“Oh, hello, Hagrid,” Harry said, looking up.

Hagrid’s face was entirely hidden by a woolly, snow-covered balaclava,
but it couldn’t possibly be anyone else, as he filled most of the corridor in
his moleskin overcoat. A dead rooster was hanging from one of his
massive, gloved hands.

“All righ’, Harry?” he said, pulling up the balaclava so he could speak.
“Why aren’t yeh in class?”
“Canceled,” said Harry, getting up. “What’re you doing in here?”
Hagrid held up the limp rooster.
“Second one killed this term,” he explained. “It’s either foxes or a
Blood-Suckin’ Bugbear, an’ I need the headmaster’s permission ter put a
charm around the hen coop.”
He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, snow-flecked
eyebrows.

“Yeh sure yeh’re all righ’? Yeh look all hot an’ bothered —”
Harry couldn’t bring himself to repeat what Ernie and the rest of the
Hufflepuffs had been saying about him.
“It’s nothing,” he said. “I’d better get going, Hagrid, it’s Transfiguration
next and I’ve got to pick up my books.”

He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had said about him.
“Justin’s been waiting for something like this to happen ever since he
let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. . . .”

Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along another corridor, which
was particularly dark; the torches had been extinguished by a strong, icy
draft that was blowing through a loose windowpane. He was halfway down
the passage when he tripped headlong over something lying on the floor.
He turned to squint at what he’d fallen over and felt as though his
stomach had dissolved.

Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying on the floor, rigid and cold, a look of
shock frozen on his face, his eyes staring blankly at the ceiling. And that
wasn’t all. Next to him was another figure, the strangest sight Harry had
ever seen.

It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white and transparent,
but black and smoky, floating immobile and horizontal, six inches off the
floor. His head was half off and his face wore an expression of shock
identical to Justin’s.

Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, his heart doing a
kind of drumroll against his ribs. He looked wildly up and down the
deserted corridor and saw a line of spiders scuttling as fast as they could
away from the bodies. The only sounds were the muffled voices of
teachers from the classes on either side.

He could run, and no one would ever know he had been there. But he
couldn’t just leave them lying here. . . . He had to get help. . . . Would
anyone believe he hadn’t had anything to do with this?

As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him opened with a
bang. Peeves the Poltergeist came shooting out.

“Why, it’s potty wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, knocking Harry’s glasses
askew as he bounced past him. “What’s Potter up to? Why’s Potter lurking
—”

Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair somersault. Upside down, he
spotted Justin and Nearly Headless Nick. He flipped the right way up,
filled his lungs and, before Harry could stop him, screamed, “ATTACK!
ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL OR GHOST IS SAFE!
RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! ATTAAAACK!”

Crash — crash — crash — door after door flew open along the corridor
and people flooded out. For several long minutes, there was a scene of
such confusion that Justin was in danger of being squashed and people
kept standing in Nearly Headless Nick. Harry found himself pinned
against the wall as the teachers shouted for quiet. Professor McGonagall
came running, followed by her own class, one of whom still had blackand-white-striped hair. She used her wand to set off a loud bang, which
restored silence, and ordered everyone back into their classes. No sooner
had the scene cleared somewhat than Ernie the Hufflepuff arrived, panting,
on the scene.

“Caught in the act!” Ernie yelled, his face stark white, pointing his
finger dramatically at Harry.
“That will do, Macmillan!” said Professor McGonagall sharply.
Peeves was bobbing overhead, now grinning wickedly, surveying the
scene; Peeves always loved chaos. As the teachers bent over Justin and
Nearly Headless Nick, examining them, Peeves broke into song:

“Oh, Potter, you rotter, oh, what have you done,
You’re killing off students, you think it’s good fun —”
“That’s enough, Peeves!” barked Professor McGonagall, and Peeves
zoomed away backward, with his tongue out at Harry.

Justin was carried up to the hospital wing by Professor Flitwick and
Professor Sinistra of the Astronomy department, but nobody seemed to
know what to do for Nearly Headless Nick. In the end, Professor
McGonagall conjured a large fan out of thin air, which she gave to Ernie
with instructions to waft Nearly Headless Nick up the stairs. This Ernie
did, fanning Nick along like a silent black hovercraft. This left Harry and
Professor McGonagall alone together.
“This way, Potter,” she said.

“Professor,” said Harry at once, “I swear I didn’t —”
“This is out of my hands, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall curtly.
They marched in silence around a corner and she stopped before a large
and extremely ugly stone gargoyle.

“Lemon drop!” she said. This was evidently a password, because the
gargoyle sprang suddenly to life and hopped aside as the wall behind him
split in two. Even full of dread for what was coming, Harry couldn’t fail to
be amazed. Behind the wall was a spiral staircase that was moving
smoothly upward, like an escalator. As he and Professor McGonagall
stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud closed behind them. They rose
upward in circles, higher and higher, until at last, slightly dizzy, Harry saw
a gleaming oak door ahead, with a brass knocker in the shape of a griffin.
He knew now where he was being taken. This must be where
Dumbledore lived.


CHAPTER TWELVE

THE POLYJUICE POTION

hey stepped off the stone staircase at the top, and Professor
McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened silently and they entered.
Professor McGonagall told Harry to wait and left him there, alone.
Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the teachers’ offices
Harry had visited so far this year, Dumbledore’s was by far the most
interesting. If he hadn’t been scared out of his wits that he was about to be
thrown out of school, he would have been very pleased to have a chance to
look around it.

It was a large and beautiful circular room, full of funny little noises. A
number of curious silver instruments stood on spindle-legged tables,
whirring and emitting little puffs of smoke. The walls were covered with
portraits of old headmasters and headmistresses, all of whom were
snoozing gently in their frames. There was also an enormous, claw-footed
desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a shabby, tattered wizard’s hat — the
Sorting Hat.

Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the sleeping witches and
wizards on the walls. Surely it couldn’t hurt if he took the hat down and
tried it on again? Just to see . . . just to make sure it had put him in the
right House —

He walked quietly around the desk, lifted the hat from its shelf, and
lowered it slowly onto his head. It was much too large and slipped down
over his eyes, just as it had done the last time he’d put it on. Harry stared
at the black inside of the hat, waiting. Then a small voice said in his ear,
“Bee in your bonnet, Harry Potter?”
“Er, yes,” Harry muttered. “Er — sorry to bother you — I wanted to ask
—”

“You’ve been wondering whether I put you in the right House,” said the
hat smartly. “Yes . . . you were particularly difficult to place. But I stand
by what I said before” — Harry’s heart leapt — “you would have done
well in Slytherin —”

Harry’s stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of the hat and pulled
it off. It hung limply in his hand, grubby and faded. Harry pushed it back
onto its shelf, feeling sick.

“You’re wrong,” he said aloud to the still and silent hat. It didn’t move.
Harry backed away, watching it. Then a strange, gagging noise behind him
made him wheel around.

He wasn’t alone after all. Standing on a golden perch behind the door
was a decrepit-looking bird that resembled a half-plucked turkey. Harry
stared at it and the bird looked balefully back, making its gagging noise
again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes were dull and, even as
Harry watched, a couple more feathers fell out of its tail.
Harry was just thinking that all he needed was for Dumbledore’s pet
bird to die while he was alone in the office with it, when the bird burst into
flames.

Harry yelled in shock and backed away into the desk. He looked
feverishly around in case there was a glass of water somewhere but
couldn’t see one; the bird, meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave one
loud shriek and next second there was nothing but a smoldering pile of ash
on the floor.

The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking very somber.
“Professor,” Harry gasped. “Your bird — I couldn’t do anything — he
just caught fire —”

To Harry’s astonishment, Dumbledore smiled.
“About time, too,” he said. “He’s been looking dreadful for days; I’ve
been telling him to get a move on.”

He chuckled at the stunned look on Harry’s face.
“Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into flame when it is time
for them to die and are reborn from the ashes. Watch him . . .”
Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, newborn bird poke its
head out of the ashes. It was quite as ugly as the old one.

“It’s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day,” said Dumbledore,
seating himself behind his desk. “He’s really very handsome most of the
time, wonderful red and gold plumage. Fascinating creatures, phoenixes.
They can carry immensely heavy loads, their tears have healing powers,
and they make highly faithful pets.”

In the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry had forgotten what he was
there for, but it all came back to him as Dumbledore settled himself in the
high chair behind the desk and fixed Harry with his penetrating, light-blue
stare.

Before Dumbledore could speak another word, however, the door of the
office flew open with an almighty bang and Hagrid burst in, a wild look in
his eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his shaggy black head and the
dead rooster still swinging from his hand.

“It wasn’ Harry, Professor Dumbledore!” said Hagrid urgently. “I was
talkin’ ter him seconds before that kid was found, he never had time, sir
—”

Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went ranting on, waving
the rooster around in his agitation, sending feathers everywhere.
“— it can’t’ve bin him, I’ll swear it in front o’ the Ministry o’ Magic if
I have to —”
“Hagrid, I —”

“— yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, I know Harry never —”
“Hagrid!” said Dumbledore loudly. “I do not think that Harry attacked
those people.”

“Oh,” said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his side. “Right. I’ll wait
outside then, Headmaster.”

And he stomped out looking embarrassed.
“You don’t think it was me, Professor?” Harry repeated hopefully as
Dumbledore brushed rooster feathers off his desk.
“No, Harry, I don’t,” said Dumbledore, though his face was somber
again. “But I still want to talk to you.”

Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered him, the tips of
his long fingers together.

“I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything you’d like to tell me,”
he said gently. “Anything at all.”

Harry didn’t know what to say. He thought of Malfoy shouting, “You’ll
be next, Mudbloods!” and of the Polyjuice Potion simmering away in
Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. Then he thought of the disembodied voice he
had heard twice and remembered what Ron had said: “Hearing voices no
one else can hear isn’t a good sign, even in the Wizarding world.” He
thought, too, about what everyone was saying about him, and his growing
dread that he was somehow connected with Salazar Slytherin. . . .
“No,” said Harry. “There isn’t anything, Professor. . . .”

The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick turned what had
hitherto been nervousness into real panic. Curiously, it was Nearly
Headless Nick’s fate that seemed to worry people most. What could
possibly do that to a ghost? people asked each other; what terrible power
could harm someone who was already dead? There was almost a stampede
to book seats on the Hogwarts Express so that students could go home for
Christmas.

“At this rate, we’ll be the only ones left,” Ron told Harry and Hermione.
“Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. What a jolly holiday it’s going to be.”
Crabbe and Goyle, who always did whatever Malfoy did, had signed up
to stay over the holidays, too. But Harry was glad that most people were
leaving. He was tired of people skirting around him in the corridors, as
though he were about to sprout fangs or spit poison; tired of all the
muttering, pointing, and hissing as he passed.

Fred and George, however, found all this very funny. They went out of
their way to march ahead of Harry down the corridors, shouting, “Make
way for the Heir of Slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming through. . . .”
Percy was deeply disapproving of this behavior.
“It is not a laughing matter,” he said coldly.

“Oh, get out of the way, Percy,” said Fred. “Harry’s in a hurry.”
“Yeah, he’s off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of tea with his
fanged servant,” said George, chortling.

Ginny didn’t find it amusing either.
“Oh, don’t,” she wailed every time Fred asked Harry loudly who he was
planning to attack next, or when George pretended to ward Harry off with
a large clove of garlic when they met.

Harry didn’t mind; it made him feel better that Fred and George, at
least, thought the idea of his being Slytherin’s heir was quite ludicrous.
But their antics seemed to be aggravating Draco Malfoy, who looked
increasingly sour each time he saw them at it.

“It’s because he’s bursting to say it’s really him,” said Ron knowingly.
“You know how he hates anyone beating him at anything, and you’re
getting all the credit for his dirty work.”

“Not for long,” said Hermione in a satisfied tone. “The Polyjuice
Potion’s nearly ready. We’ll be getting the truth out of him any day now.”
At last the term ended, and a silence deep as the snow on the grounds
descended on the castle. Harry found it peaceful, rather than gloomy, and
enjoyed the fact that he, Hermione, and the Weasleys had the run of
Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could play Exploding Snap loudly
without bothering anyone, and practice dueling in private. Fred, George,
and Ginny had chosen to stay at school rather than visit Bill in Egypt with
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Percy, who disapproved of what he termed their
childish behavior, didn’t spend much time in the Gryffindor common
room. He had already told them pompously that he was only staying over
Christmas because it was his duty as a prefect to support the teachers
during this troubled time.

Christmas morning dawned, cold and white. Harry and Ron, the only
ones left in their dormitory, were woken very early by Hermione, who
burst in, fully dressed and carrying presents for them both.
“Wake up,” she said loudly, pulling back the curtains at the window.
“Hermione — you’re not supposed to be in here —” said Ron, shielding
his eyes against the light.

“Merry Christmas to you, too,” said Hermione, throwing him his
present. “I’ve been up for nearly an hour, adding more lacewings to the
potion. It’s ready.”
Harry sat up, suddenly wide awake.

“Are you sure?”
“Positive,” said Hermione, shifting Scabbers the rat so that she could sit
down on the end of Ron’s four-poster. “If we’re going to do it, I say it
should be tonight.”
At that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, carrying a very small
package in her beak.
“Hello,” said Harry happily as she landed on his bed. “Are you speaking
to me again?”

She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, which was a far better
present than the one that she had brought him, which turned out to be from
the Dursleys. They had sent Harry a toothpick and a note telling him to
find out whether he’d be able to stay at Hogwarts for the summer vacation,
too.

The rest of Harry’s Christmas presents were far more satisfactory.
Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle toffee, which Harry decided to
soften by the fire before eating; Ron had given him a book called Flying
with the Cannons, a book of interesting facts about his favorite Quidditch
team, and Hermione had bought him a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry
opened the last present to find a new, hand-knitted sweater from Mrs.

Weasley and a large plum cake. He read her card with a fresh surge of
guilt, thinking about Mr. Weasley’s car (which hadn’t been seen since its
crash with the Whomping Willow), and the bout of rule-breaking he and
Ron were planning next.

No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice Potion later, could
fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at Hogwarts.

The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were there a dozen frostcovered Christmas trees and thick streamers of holly and mistletoe
crisscrossing the ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling, warm and dry,
from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of his favorite carols,
Hagrid booming more and more loudly with every goblet of eggnog he
consumed. Percy, who hadn’t noticed that Fred had bewitched his prefect
badge so that it now read “Pinhead,” kept asking them all what they were
sniggering at. Harry didn’t even care that Draco Malfoy was making loud,
snide remarks about his new sweater from the Slytherin table. With a bit
of luck, Malfoy would be getting his comeuppance in a few hours’ time.

Harry and Ron had barely finished their third helpings of Christmas
pudding when Hermione ushered them out of the hall to finalize their
plans for the evening.

“We still need a bit of the people you’re changing into,” said Hermione
matter-of-factly, as though she were sending them to the supermarket for
laundry detergent. “And obviously, it’ll be best if you can get something of
Crabbe’s and Goyle’s; they’re Malfoy’s best friends, he’ll tell them
anything. And we also need to make sure the real Crabbe and Goyle can’t
burst in on us while we’re interrogating him.

“I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smoothly, ignoring Harry’s and
Ron’s stupefied faces. She held up two plump chocolate cakes. “I’ve filled
these with a simple Sleeping Draught. All you have to do is make sure
Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how greedy they are, they’re
bound to eat them. Once they’re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and
hide them in a broom closet.”
Harry and Ron looked incredulously at each other.

“Hermione, I don’t think —”
“That could go seriously wrong —”
But Hermione had a steely glint in her eye not unlike the one Professor
McGonagall sometimes had.
“The potion will be useless without Crabbe’s and Goyle’s hair,” she said
sternly. “You do want to investigate Malfoy, don’t you?”
“Oh, all right, all right,” said Harry. “But what about you? Whose hair
are you ripping out?”

“I’ve already got mine!” said Hermione brightly, pulling a tiny bottle
out of her pocket and showing them the single hair inside it. “Remember
Millicent Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling Club? She left this
on my robes when she was trying to strangle me! And she’s gone home for
Christmas — so I’ll just have to tell the Slytherins I’ve decided to come
back.”

When Hermione had bustled off to check on the Polyjuice Potion again,
Ron turned to Harry with a doom-laden expression.

“Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things could go wrong?”
But to Harry’s and Ron’s utter amazement, stage one of the operation went
just as smoothly as Hermione had said. They lurked in the deserted
entrance hall after Christmas tea, waiting for Crabbe and Goyle who had
remained alone at the Slytherin table, shoveling down fourth helpings of
trifle. Harry had perched the chocolate cakes on the end of the banisters.
When they spotted Crabbe and Goyle coming out of the Great Hall, Harry
and Ron hid quickly behind a suit of armor next to the front door.

“How thick can you get?” Ron whispered ecstatically as Crabbe
gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle and grabbed them. Grinning
stupidly, they stuffed the cakes whole into their large mouths. For a
moment, both of them chewed greedily, looks of triumph on their faces.
Then, without the smallest change of expression, they both keeled over
backward onto the floor.

By far the hardest part was hiding them in the closet across the hall.
Once they were safely stowed among the buckets and mops, Harry yanked
out a couple of the bristles that covered Goyle’s forehead and Ron pulled
out several of Crabbe’s hairs. They also stole their shoes, because their
own were far too small for Crabbe- and Goyle-size feet. Then, still stunned
at what they had just done, they sprinted up to Moaning Myrtle’s
bathroom.

They could hardly see for the thick black smoke issuing from the stall in
which Hermione was stirring the cauldron. Pulling their robes up over
their faces, Harry and Ron knocked softly on the door.
“Hermione?”

They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione emerged, shiny-faced
and looking anxious. Behind her they heard the gloop gloop of the
bubbling, glutinous potion. Three glass tumblers stood ready on the toilet
seat.
“Did you get them?” Hermione asked breathlessly.
Harry showed her Goyle’s hair.
“Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the laundry,” Hermione
said, holding up a small sack. “You’ll need bigger sizes once you’re
Crabbe and Goyle.”

The three of them stared into the cauldron. Close up, the potion looked
like thick, dark mud, bubbling sluggishly.
“I’m sure I’ve done everything right,” said Hermione, nervously
rereading the splotched page of Moste Potente Potions. “It looks like the
book says it should . . . once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have exactly an hour
before we change back into ourselves.”
“Now what?” Ron whispered.

“We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.”
Hermione ladled large dollops of the potion into each of the glasses.
Then, her hand trembling, she shook Millicent Bulstrode’s hair out of its
bottle into the first glass.
The potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and frothed madly. A
second later, it had turned a sick sort of yellow.
“Urgh — essence of Millicent Bulstrode,” said Ron, eyeing it with
loathing. “Bet it tastes disgusting.”

“Add yours, then,” said Hermione.
Harry dropped Goyle’s hair into the middle glass and Ron put Crabbe’s
into the last one. Both glasses hissed and frothed: Goyle’s turned the khaki
color of a booger, Crabbe’s a dark, murky brown.
“Hang on,” said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached for their glasses.
“We’d better not all drink them in here. . . . Once we turn into Crabbe and
Goyle we won’t fit. And Millicent Bulstrode’s no pixie.”
“Good thinking,” said Ron, unlocking the door. “We’ll take separate
stalls.”

Careful not to spill a drop of his Polyjuice Potion, Harry slipped into the
middle stall.
“Ready?” he called.
“Ready,” came Ron’s and Hermione’s voices.
“One — two — three —”
Pinching his nose, Harry drank the potion down in two large gulps. It
tasted like overcooked cabbage.

Immediately, his insides started writhing as though he’d just swallowed
live snakes — doubled up, he wondered whether he was going to be sick
— then a burning sensation spread rapidly from his stomach to the very
ends of his fingers and toes — next, bringing him gasping to all fours,
came a horrible melting feeling, as the skin all over his body bubbled like
hot wax — and before his eyes, his hands began to grow, the fingers
thickened, the nails broadened, the knuckles were bulging like bolts — his
shoulders stretched painfully and a prickling on his forehead told him that
hair was creeping down toward his eyebrows — his robes ripped as his
chest expanded like a barrel bursting its hoops — his feet were agony in
shoes four sizes too small —

As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. Harry lay facedown
on the stone-cold floor, listening to Myrtle gurgling morosely in the end
toilet. With difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So this was
what it felt like, being Goyle. His large hand trembling, he pulled off his
old robes, which were hanging a foot above his ankles, pulled on the spare
ones, and laced up Goyle’s boatlike shoes. He reached up to brush his hair
out of his eyes and met only the short growth of wiry bristles, low on his
forehead. Then he realized that his glasses were clouding his eyes because
Goyle obviously didn’t need them — he took them off and called, “Are
you two okay?” Goyle’s low rasp of a voice issued from his mouth.
“Yeah,” came the deep grunt of Crabbe from his right.

Harry unlocked his door and stepped in front of the cracked mirror.
Goyle stared back at him out of dull, deepset eyes. Harry scratched his ear.
So did Goyle.
Ron’s door opened. They stared at each other. Except that he looked pale
and shocked, Ron was indistinguishable from Crabbe, from the puddingbowl haircut to the long, gorilla arms.
“This is unbelievable,” said Ron, approaching the mirror and prodding
Crabbe’s flat nose. “Unbelievable.”
“We’d better get going,” said Harry, loosening the watch that was
cutting into Goyle’s thick wrist. “We’ve still got to find out where the
Slytherin common room is. I only hope we can find someone to
follow . . .”

Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, “You don’t know how bizarre
it is to see Goyle thinking.” He banged on Hermione’s door. “C’mon, we
need to go —”
A high-pitched voice answered him.
“I — I don’t think I’m going to come after all. You go on without me.”
“Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrode’s ugly, no one’s going to know
it’s you —”

“No — really — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hurry up, you’re
wasting time —”
Harry looked at Ron, bewildered.
“That looks more like Goyle,” said Ron. “That’s how he looks every
time a teacher asks him a question.”
“Hermione, are you okay?” said Harry through the door.
“Fine — I’m fine — go on —”
Harry looked at his watch. Five of their precious sixty minutes had
already passed.
“We’ll meet you back here, all right?” he said.
Harry and Ron opened the door of the bathroom carefully, checked that
the coast was clear, and set off.
“Don’t swing your arms like that,” Harry muttered to Ron.
“Eh?”

“Crabbe holds them sort of stiff. . . .”
“How’s this?”
“Yeah, that’s better. . . .”
They went down the marble staircase. All they needed now was a
Slytherin that they could follow to the Slytherin common room, but there
was nobody around.
“Any ideas?” muttered Harry.
“The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from over there,” said
Ron, nodding at the entrance to the dungeons. The words had barely left
his mouth when a girl with long, curly hair emerged from the entrance.
“Excuse me,” said Ron, hurrying up to her. “We’ve forgotten the way to
our common room.”

“I beg your pardon?” said the girl stiffly. “Our common room? I’m a
Ravenclaw.”
She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them.
Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the darkness, their
footsteps echoing particularly loudly as Crabbe’s and Goyle’s huge feet hit
the floor, feeling that this wasn’t going to be as easy as they had hoped.
The labyrinthine passages were deserted. They walked deeper and
deeper under the school, constantly checking their watches to see how
much time they had left. After a quarter of an hour, just when they were
getting desperate, they heard a sudden movement ahead.
“Ha!” said Ron excitedly. “There’s one of them now!”

The figure was emerging from a side room. As they hurried nearer,
however, their hearts sank. It wasn’t a Slytherin, it was Percy.
“What’re you doing down here?” said Ron in surprise.
Percy looked affronted.
“That,” he said stiffly, “is none of your business. It’s Crabbe, isn’t it?”
“Wh — oh, yeah,” said Ron.
“Well, get off to your dormitories,” said Percy sternly. “It’s not safe to
go wandering around dark corridors these days.”
“You are,” Ron pointed out.

“I,” said Percy, drawing himself up, “am a prefect. Nothing’s about to
attack me.”
A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. Draco Malfoy was
strolling toward them, and for the first time in his life, Harry was pleased
to see him.
“There you are,” he drawled, looking at them. “Have you two been
pigging out in the Great Hall all this time? I’ve been looking for you; I
want to show you something really funny.”
Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy.

“And what’re you doing down here, Weasley?” he sneered.
Percy looked outraged.
“You want to show a bit more respect to a school prefect!” he said. “I
don’t like your attitude!”
Malfoy sneered and motioned for Harry and Ron to follow him. Harry
almost said something apologetic to Percy but caught himself just in time.
He and Ron hurried after Malfoy, who said as they turned into the next
passage, “That Peter Weasley —”
“Percy,” Ron corrected him automatically.

“Whatever,” said Malfoy. “I’ve noticed him sneaking around a lot lately.
And I bet I know what he’s up to. He thinks he’s going to catch Slytherin’s
heir single-handed.”
He gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry and Ron exchanged excited looks.
Malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall.
“What’s the new password again?” he said to Harry.
“Er —” said Harry.
“Oh, yeah — pure-blood!” said Malfoy, not listening, and a stone door
concealed in the wall slid open. Malfoy marched through it, and Harry and
Ron followed him.

The Slytherin common room was a long, low underground room with
rough stone walls and ceiling from which round, greenish lamps were
hanging on chains. A fire was crackling under an elaborately carved
mantelpiece ahead of them, and several Slytherins were silhouetted around
it in high-backed chairs.
“Wait here,” said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning them to a pair of
empty chairs set back from the fire. “I’ll go and get it — my father’s just
sent it to me —”

Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, Harry and Ron sat
down, doing their best to look at home.
Malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked like a newspaper
clipping. He thrust it under Ron’s nose.
“That’ll give you a laugh,” he said.

Harry saw Ron’s eyes widen in shock. He read the clipping quickly, gave
a very forced laugh, and handed it to Harry.
It had been clipped out of the Daily Prophet, and it said:

INQUIRY AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, was
today fined fifty Galleons for bewitching a Muggle car.
Mr. Lucius Malfoy, a governor of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
and Wizardry, where the enchanted car crashed earlier this year,
called today for Mr. Weasley’s resignation.
“Weasley has brought the Ministry into disrepute,” Mr. Malfoy told
our reporter. “He is clearly unfit to draw up our laws and his
ridiculous Muggle Protection Act should be scrapped immediately.”
Mr. Weasley was unavailable for comment, although his wife told
reporters to clear off or she’d set the family ghoul on them.
“Well?” said Malfoy impatiently as Harry handed the clipping back to
him. “Don’t you think it’s funny?”

“Ha, ha,” said Harry bleakly.
“Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should snap his wand in
half and go and join them,” said Malfoy scornfully. “You’d never know the
Weasleys were purebloods, the way they behave.”
Ron’s — or rather, Crabbe’s — face was contorted with fury.
“What’s up with you, Crabbe?” snapped Malfoy.
“Stomachache,” Ron grunted.

“Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those Mudbloods a kick
from me,” said Malfoy, snickering. “You know, I’m surprised the Daily
Prophet hasn’t reported all these attacks yet,” he went on thoughtfully. “I
suppose Dumbledore’s trying to hush it all up. He’ll be sacked if it doesn’t
stop soon. Father’s always said old Dumbledore’s the worst thing that’s
ever happened to this place. He loves Muggle-borns. A decent headmaster
would never’ve let slime like that Creevey in.”

Malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary camera and did a cruel
but accurate impression of Colin: “‘Potter, can I have your picture, Potter?
Can I have your autograph? Can I lick your shoes, please, Potter?’”
He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron.

“What’s the matter with you two?”
Far too late, Harry and Ron forced themselves to laugh, but Malfoy
seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe and Goyle were always slow on the
uptake.

“Saint Potter, the Mudbloods’ friend,” said Malfoy slowly. “He’s
another one with no proper wizard feeling, or he wouldn’t go around with
that jumped-up Granger Mudblood. And people think he’s Slytherin’s
heir!”

Harry and Ron waited with bated breath: Malfoy was surely seconds
away from telling them it was him — but then —
“I wish I knew who it is,” said Malfoy petulantly. 
“I could help them.”
Ron’s jaw dropped so that Crabbe looked even more clueless than usual.
Fortunately, Malfoy didn’t notice, and Harry, thinking fast, said, “You
must have some idea who’s behind it all. . . .”

“You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have to tell you?”
snapped Malfoy. “And Father won’t tell me anything about the last time
the Chamber was opened either. Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was
before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept
quiet and it’ll look suspicious if I know too much about it. But I know one
thing — last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died.
So I bet it’s a matter of time before one of them’s killed this time. . . . I
hope it’s Granger,” he said with relish.

Ron was clenching Crabbe’s gigantic fists. Feeling that it would be a bit
of a giveaway if Ron punched Malfoy, Harry shot him a warning look and
said, “D’you know if the person who opened the Chamber last time was
caught?”

“Oh, yeah . . . whoever it was was expelled,” said Malfoy. “They’re
probably still in Azkaban.”
“Azkaban?” said Harry, puzzled.

“Azkaban — the wizard prison, Goyle,” said Malfoy, looking at him in
disbelief. “Honestly, if you were any slower, you’d be going backward.”
He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, “Father says to keep my head
down and let the Heir of Slytherin get on with it. He says the school needs
ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get mixed up in it. Of course,
he’s got a lot on his plate at the moment. You know the Ministry of Magic
raided our manor last week?”

Harry tried to force Goyle’s dull face into a look of concern.
“Yeah . . .” said Malfoy. “Luckily, they didn’t find much. Father’s got
some very valuable Dark Arts stuff. But luckily, we’ve got our own secret
chamber under the drawing-room floor —”
“Ho!” said Ron.

Malfoy looked at him. So did Harry. Ron blushed. Even his hair was
turning red. His nose was also slowly lengthening — their hour was up,
Ron was turning back into himself, and from the look of horror he was
suddenly giving Harry, he must be, too.
They both jumped to their feet.

“Medicine for my stomach,” Ron grunted, and without further ado they
sprinted the length of the Slytherin common room, hurled themselves at
the stone wall, and dashed up the passage, hoping against hope that Malfoy
hadn’t noticed anything. Harry could feel his feet slipping around in
Goyle’s huge shoes and had to hoist up his robes as he shrank; they
crashed up the steps into the dark entrance hall, which was full of a
muffled pounding coming from the closet where they’d locked Crabbe and
Goyle. Leaving their shoes outside the closet door, they sprinted in their
socks up the marble staircase toward Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom.

“Well, it wasn’t a complete waste of time,” Ron panted, closing the
bathroom door behind them. “I know we still haven’t found out who’s
doing the attacks, but I’m going to write to Dad tomorrow and tell him to
check under the Malfoys’ drawing room.”

Harry checked his face in the cracked mirror. He was back to normal. He
put his glasses on as Ron hammered on the door of Hermione’s stall.
“Hermione, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you —”
“Go away!” Hermione squeaked.

Harry and Ron looked at each other.
“What’s the matter?” said Ron. “You must be back to normal by now, we
are —”
But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall door. Harry had
never seen her looking so happy.
“Ooooooh, wait till you see,” she said. “It’s awful —”
They heard the lock slide back and Hermione emerged, sobbing, her
robes pulled up over her head.

“What’s up?” said Ron uncertainly. “Have you still got Millicent’s nose
or something?”

Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the sink.
Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had turned yellow and there
were long, pointed ears poking through her hair.

“It was a c-cat hair!” she howled. “M-Millicent Bulstrode m-must have
a cat! And the p-potion isn’t supposed to be used for animal
transformations!”
“Uh-oh,” said Ron.

“You’ll be teased something dreadful,” said Myrtle happily.
“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry quickly. “We’ll take you up to the
hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never asks too many questions. . . .”
It took a long time to persuade Hermione to leave the bathroom.
Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way with a hearty guffaw. “Wait till
everyone finds out you’ve got a tail!”


CHAPTER  THIRTY-THREE

FIGHT AND FLIGHT

Harry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or even whether she
had a plan. He walked half a pace behind her as they headed down
the corridor outside Umbridge’s office, knowing it would look very
suspicious if he appeared not to know where they were going. He did not
dare attempt to talk to her; Umbridge was walking so closely behind them
that he could hear her ragged breathing.

Hermione led the way down the stairs into the entrance hall. The din of
loud voices and the clatter of cutlery on plates echoed from out of the
double doors to the Great Hall. It seemed incredible to Harry that twenty
feet away were people who were enjoying dinner, celebrating the end of
exams, not a care in the world. . . .

Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors and down the stone
steps into the balmy evening air. The sun was falling toward the tops of the
trees in the Forbidden Forest now as Hermione marched purposefully
across the grass, Umbridge jogging to keep up. Their long dark shadows
rippled over the grass behind them like cloaks.

“It’s hidden in Hagrid’s hut, is it?” said Umbridge eagerly in Harry’s ear.
“Of course not,” said Hermione scathingly. “Hagrid might have set it off
accidentally.”

“Yes,” said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be mounting. “Yes,
he would have done, of course, the great half-breed oaf . . .”
She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing around and seize her by
the throat, but resisted. His scar was throbbing in the soft evening air but it
had not yet burned white-hot, as he knew it would if Voldemort had moved
in for the kill. . . .

“Then . . . where is it?” asked Umbridge, with a hint of uncertainty in her
voice as Hermione continued to stride toward the forest.
“In there, of course,” said Hermione, pointing into the dark trees. “It had
to be somewhere that students weren’t going to find it accidentally, didn’t
it?”

“Of course,” said Umbridge, though she sounded a little apprehensive
now. “Of course . . . very well, then . . . you two stay ahead of me.”
“Can we have your wand, then, if we’re going first?” Harry asked her.
“No, I don’t think so, Mr. Potter,” said Umbridge sweetly, poking him in
the back with it. “The Ministry places a rather higher value on my life than
yours, I’m afraid.”

As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, Harry tried to catch
Hermione’s eye; walking into the forest without wands seemed to him to be
more foolhardy than anything they had done so far this evening. She,
however, merely gave Umbridge a contemptuous glance and plunged
straight into the trees, moving at such a pace that Umbridge, with her
shorter legs, had difficulty in keeping up.

“Is it very far in?” Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped on a bramble.
“Oh yes,” said Hermione. “Yes, it’s well hidden.”

Harry’s misgivings increased. Hermione was not taking the path they had
followed to visit Grawp, but the one he had followed three years ago to the
lair of the monster Aragog. Hermione had not been with him on that
occasion; he doubted she had any idea what danger lay at the end of it.
“Er — are you sure this is the right way?” he asked her pointedly.

“Oh yes,” she said in a steely voice, crashing through the undergrowth
with what he thought was a wholly unnecessary amount of noise. Behind
them, Umbridge tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither of them paused to
help her up again; Hermione merely strode on, calling loudly over her
shoulder, “It’s a bit further in!”

“Hermione, keep your voice down,” Harry muttered, hurrying to catch up
with her. “Anything could be listening in here —”

“I want us heard,” she answered quietly, as Umbridge jogged noisily after
them. “You’ll see . . .”

They walked on for what seemed a long time, until they were once again
so deep into the forest that the dense tree canopy blocked out all light.
Harry had the feeling he had had before in the forest, one of being watched
by unseen eyes. . . .

“How much further?” demanded Umbridge angrily from behind him.
“Not far now!” shouted Hermione, as they emerged into a dim, dank
clearing. “Just a little bit —”

An arrow flew through the air and landed with a menacing thud in the
tree just over her head. The air was suddenly full of the sound of hooves.
Harry could feel the forest floor trembling; Umbridge gave a little scream
and pushed him in front of her like a shield —

He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around fifty centaurs were
emerging on every side, their bows raised and loaded, pointing at Harry,
Hermione, and Umbridge, who backed slowly into the center of the
clearing, Umbridge uttering odd little whimpers of terror. Harry looked
sideways at Hermione. She was wearing a triumphant smile.
“Who are you?” said a voice.

Harry looked left. The chestnut-bodied centaur called Magorian was
walking toward them out of the circle; his bow, like the others’, was raised.
On Harry’s right, Umbridge was still whimpering, her wand trembling
violently as she pointed it at the advancing centaur.

“I asked you who are you, human,” said Magorian roughly.
“I am Dolores Umbridge!” said Umbridge in a high-pitched, terrified
voice. “Senior Undersecretary to the Minister of Magic and Headmistress
and High Inquisitor of Hogwarts!”

“You are from the Ministry of Magic?” said Magorian, as many of the
centaurs in the surrounding circle shifted restlessly.

“That’s right!” said Umbridge in an even higher voice. “So be very
careful! By the laws laid down by the Department for the Regulation and
Control of Magical Creatures, any attack by half-breeds such as yourselves
on a human —”

“What did you call us?” shouted a wild-looking black centaur, whom
Harry recognized as Bane. There was a great deal of angry muttering and
tightening of bowstrings around them.

“Don’t call them that!” Hermione said furiously, but Umbridge did not
appear to have heard her. Still pointing her shaking wand at Magorian, she
continued, “Law Fifteen B states clearly that ‘Any attack by a magical
creature who is deemed to have near-human intelligence, and therefore
considered responsible for its actions —’”

“‘Near-human intelligence’?” repeated Magorian, as Bane and several
others roared with rage and pawed the ground. “We consider that a great
insult, human! Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your own —”
“What are you doing in our forest?” bellowed the hard-faced gray centaur
whom Harry and Hermione had seen on their last trip into the forest. “Why
are you here?”

“Your forest?” said Umbridge, shaking now not only with fright but also,
it seemed, with indignation. “I would remind you that you live here only
because the Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of land —”
An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at her mousy hair in
passing. She let out an earsplitting scream and threw her hands over her
head while some of the centaurs bellowed their approval and others laughed
raucously. The sound of their wild, neighing laughter echoing around the
dimly lit clearing and the sight of their pawing hooves was extremely
unnerving.

“Whose forest is it now, human?” bellowed Bane.
“Filthy half-breeds!” she screamed, her hands still tight over her head.
“Beasts! Uncontrolled animals!”

“Be quiet!” shouted Hermione, but it was too late — Umbridge pointed
her wand at Magorian and screamed, “Incarcerous!”

Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping themselves tightly
around the centaur’s torso and trapping his arms. He gave a cry of rage and
reared onto his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while the other
centaurs charged.

Harry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the ground. Facedown on the
forest floor he knew a moment of terror as hooves thundered around him,
but the centaurs leapt over and around them, bellowing and screaming with
rage.

“Nooooo!” he heard Umbridge shriek. “Noooooo  .  .  . I am Senior
Undersecretary . . . you cannot . . . unhand me, you animals . . . nooooo!”
He saw a flash of red light and knew that she had attempted to Stun one
of them — then she screamed very loudly. Lifting his head a few inches,
Harry saw that Umbridge had been seized from behind by Bane and lifted
high into the air, wriggling and yelling with fright. Her wand fell from her
hand to the ground and Harry’s heart leapt, if he could just reach it —
But as he stretched out a hand toward it, a centaur’s hoof descended upon
the wand and it broke cleanly in half.

“Now!” roared a voice in Harry’s ear and a thick hairy arm descended
from thin air and dragged him upright; Hermione too had been pulled to her
feet. Over the plunging, many-colored backs and heads of the centaurs
Harry saw Umbridge being borne away through the trees by Bane, still
screaming nonstop; her voice grew fainter and fainter until they could no
longer hear it over the trampling of hooves surrounding them.

“And these?” said the hard-faced, gray centaur holding Hermione.
“They are young,” said a slow, doleful voice from behind Harry. “We do
not attack foals.”

“They brought her here, Ronan,” replied the centaur who had such a firm
grip on Harry. “And they are not so young. . . . He is nearing manhood, this
one . . .”

He shook Harry by the neck of his robes.
“Please,” said Hermione breathlessly, “please, don’t attack us, we don’t
think like her, we aren’t Ministry of Magic employees! We only came in
here because we hoped you’d drive her off for us —”

Harry knew at once from the look on the face of the gray centaur holding
Hermione that she had made a terrible mistake in saying this. The gray
centaur threw back his head, his back legs stamping furiously, and
bellowed, “You see, Ronan? They already have the arrogance of their kind!
So we were to do your dirty work, were we, human girl? We were to act as
your servants, drive away your enemies like obedient hounds?”

“No!” said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. “Please — I didn’t mean
that! I just hoped you’d be able to — to help us —”
But she seemed to be going from bad to worse.

“We do not help humans!” snarled the centaur holding Harry, tightening
his grip and rearing a little at the same time, so that Harry’s feet left the
ground momentarily. “We are a race apart and proud to be so. . . . We will
not permit you to walk from here, boasting that we did your bidding!”
“We’re not going to say anything like that!” Harry shouted. “We know
you didn’t do anything because we wanted you to —”

But nobody seemed to be listening to him. A bearded centaur toward the
back of the crowd shouted, “They came here unasked, they must pay the
consequences!”

A roar of approval met these words and a dun-colored centaur shouted,
“They can join the woman!”

“You said you didn’t hurt the innocent!” shouted Hermione, real tears
sliding down her face now. “We haven’t done anything to hurt you, we
haven’t used wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, please let
us go back —”

“We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl!” shouted the gray
centaur, to more neighing roars of approval from his fellows. “Perhaps you
thought us pretty talking horses? We are an ancient people who will not
stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not recognize your laws, we do
not acknowledge your superiority, we are —”

But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at that moment there
came a crashing noise on the edge of the clearing so loud that all of them —
Harry, Hermione, and the fifty or so centaurs filling the clearing — looked
around. Harry’s centaur let him fall to the ground again as his hands flew to
his bow and quiver of arrows; Hermione had been dropped too, and Harry
hurried toward her as two thick tree trunks parted ominously and the
monstrous form of Grawp the giant appeared in the gap.

The centaurs nearest him backed into those behind. The clearing was
now a forest of bows and arrows waiting to be fired, all pointing upward at
the enormous grayish face now looming over them from just beneath the
thick canopy of branches. Grawp’s lopsided mouth was gaping stupidly.
They could see his bricklike yellow teeth glimmering in the half-light, his
dull sludge-colored eyes narrowed as he squinted down at the creatures at
his feet. Broken ropes trailed from both ankles.
He opened his mouth even wider.

“Hagger.”
Harry did not know what “hagger” meant, or what language it was from,
nor did he much care — he was watching Grawp’s feet, which were almost
as long as Harry’s whole body. Hermione gripped his arm tightly; the
centaurs were quite silent, staring up at the giant, whose huge, round head
moved from side to side as he continued to peer amongst them as though
looking for something he had dropped.

“Hagger!” he said again, more insistently.
“Get away from here, giant!” called Magorian. “You are not welcome
among us!”

These words seemed to make no impression whatsoever on Grawp. He
stooped a little (the centaurs’ arms tensed on their bows) and then bellowed,
“HAGGER!”

A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, however, gave a
gasp.

“Harry!” she whispered. “I think he’s trying to say ‘Hagrid’!”
At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, the only two
humans in a sea of centaurs. He lowered his head another foot or so, staring
intently at them. Harry could feel Hermione shaking as Grawp opened his
mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rumbling voice, “Hermy.”
“Goodness,” said Hermione, gripping Harry’s arm so tightly it was
growing numb and looking as though she was about to faint, “he — he
remembered!”

“HERMY!” roared Grawp. “WHERE HAGGER?”
“I don’t know!” squealed Hermione, terrified. “I’m sorry, Grawp, I don’t
know!”

“GRAWP WANT HAGGER!”

One of the giant’s massive hands swooped down upon them — Hermione
let out a real scream, ran a few steps backward and fell over. Wandless,
Harry braced himself to punch, kick, bite, or whatever else it took as the
hand flew toward him and knocked a snow-white centaur off his legs.
It was what the centaurs had been waiting for — Grawp’s outstretched
fingers were a foot from Harry when fifty arrows went soaring through the
air at the giant, peppering his enormous face, causing him to howl with pain
and rage and straighten up again, rubbing his face with his enormous hands,
breaking off the arrow shafts but forcing the heads in still deeper.

He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the centaurs scattered out
of the way. Pebble-sized droplets of Grawp’s blood showered Harry as he
pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran as fast as they could
for the shelter of the trees. Once there they looked back — Grawp was
snatching blindly at the centaurs as blood ran all down his face; they were
retreating in disorder, galloping away through the trees on the other side of
the clearing. As Harry and Hermione watched, Grawp gave another roar of
fury and plunged after them, smashing more trees aside as he went.
“Oh no,” said Hermione, quaking so badly that her knees gave way. “Oh,
that was horrible. And he might kill them all . . .”

“I’m not that fussed, to be honest,” said Harry bitterly.
The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the blundering giant were
growing fainter and fainter. As Harry listened to them his scar gave another
great throb and a wave of terror swept over him.
They had wasted so much time — they were even further from rescuing
Sirius than they had been when he had had the vision. Not only had Harry
managed to lose his wand but they were stuck in the middle of the
Forbidden Forest with no means of transport whatsoever.

“Smart plan,” he spat at Hermione, keen to release some of his fury.
“Really smart plan. Where do we go from here?”
“We need to get back up to the castle,” said Hermione faintly.
“By the time we’ve done that, Sirius’ll probably be dead!” said Harry,
kicking a nearby tree in temper; there was a high-pitched chattering
overhead and he looked up to see an angry bowtruckle flexing its long
twiglike fingers at him.

“Well, we can’t do anything without wands,” said Hermione hopelessly,
dragging herself up again. “Anyway, Harry, how exactly were you planning
to get all the way to London?”
“Yeah, we were just wondering that,” said a familiar voice from behind
her.

Harry and Hermione moved instinctively together, peering through the
trees, as Ron came into sight, with Ginny, Neville, and Luna hurrying along
behind him. All of them looked a little the worse for wear — there were
several long scratches running the length of Ginny’s cheek, a large purple
lump was swelling above Neville’s right eye, Ron’s lip was bleeding worse
than ever — but all were looking rather pleased with themselves.
“So,” said Ron, pushing aside a low-hanging branch and holding out
Harry’s wand, “had any ideas?”

“How did you get away?” asked Harry in amazement, taking his wand
from Ron.

“Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville brought off a really
nice little Impediment Jinx,” said Ron airily, now handing back Hermione’s
wand too. “But Ginny was best, she got Malfoy — Bat-Bogey Hex — it
was superb, his whole face was covered in the great flapping things.
Anyway, we saw you heading into the forest out of the window and
followed. What’ve you done with Umbridge?”

“She got carried away,” said Harry. “By a herd of centaurs.”
“And they left you behind?” asked Ginny, looking astonished.
“No, they got chased off by Grawp,” said Harry.
“Who’s Grawp?” Luna asked interestedly.

“Hagrid’s little brother,” said Ron promptly. “Anyway, never mind that
now. Harry, what did you find out in the fire? Has You-Know-Who got
Sirius or — ?”

“Yes,” said Harry, as his scar gave another painful prickle, “and I’m sure
Sirius is still alive, but I can’t see how we’re going to get there to help
him.”

They all fell silent, looking rather scared. The problem facing them
seemed insurmountable.

“Well, we’ll have to fly, won’t we?” said Luna in the closest thing to a
matter-of-fact voice Harry had ever heard her use.
“Okay,” said Harry irritably, rounding on her, “first of all, ‘we’ aren’t
doing anything if you’re including yourself in that, and second of all, Ron’s
the only one with a broomstick that isn’t being guarded by a security troll,
so —”

“I’ve got a broom!” said Ginny.
“Yeah, but you’re not coming,” said Ron angrily.
“Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!” said
Ginny, her jaw set so that her resemblance to Fred and George was
suddenly striking.

“You’re too —” Harry began.
“I’m three years older than you were when you fought You-Know-Who
over the Sorcerer’s Stone,” she said fiercely, “and it’s because of me
Malfoy’s stuck back in Umbridge’s office with giant flying bogeys
attacking him —”
“Yeah, but —”

“We were all in the D.A. together,” said Neville quietly. “It was all
supposed to be about fighting You-Know-Who, wasn’t it? And this is the
first chance we’ve had to do something real — or was that all just a game or
something?”

“No — of course it wasn’t —” said Harry impatiently.
“Then we should come too,” said Neville simply. “We want to help.”
“That’s right,” said Luna, smiling happily.

Harry’s eyes met Ron’s. He knew that Ron was thinking exactly what he
was: If he could have chosen any members of the D.A. in addition to
himself, Ron, and Hermione to join him in the attempt to rescue Sirius, he
would not have picked Ginny, Neville, or Luna.

“Well, it doesn’t matter anyway,” said Harry frustratedly, “because we
still don’t know how to get there —”
“I thought we’d settled that?” said Luna maddeningly. “We’re flying!”
“Look,” said Ron, barely containing his anger, “you might be able to fly
without a broomstick but the rest of us can’t sprout wings whenever we —”
“There are other ways of flying than with broomsticks,” said Luna
serenely.

“I s’pose we’re going to ride on the back of the Kacky Snorgle or
whatever it is?” Ron demanded.
“The Crumple-Horned Snorkack can’t fly,” said Luna in a dignified
voice, “but they can, and Hagrid says they’re very good at finding places
their riders are looking for.”
Harry whirled around. Standing between two trees, their white eyes
gleaming eerily, were two thestrals, watching the whispered conversation as
though they understood every word.

“Yes!” he whispered, moving toward them. They tossed their reptilian
heads, throwing back long black manes, and Harry stretched out his hand
eagerly and patted the nearest one’s shining neck. How could he ever have
thought them ugly?
“Is it those mad horse things?” said Ron uncertainly, staring at a point
slightly to the left of the thestral Harry was patting. “Those ones you can’t
see unless you’ve watched someone snuff it?”
“Yeah,” said Harry.
“How many?”
“Just two.”

“Well, we need three,” said Hermione, who was still looking a little
shaken, but determined just the same.
“Four, Hermione,” said Ginny, scowling.
“I think there are six of us, actually,” said Luna calmly, counting.
“Don’t be stupid, we can’t all go!” said Harry angrily. “Look, you three”
— he pointed at Neville, Ginny, and Luna — “you’re not involved in this,
you’re not —”

They burst into more protests. His scar gave another, more painful,
twinge. Every moment they delayed was precious; he did not have time to
argue.
“Okay, fine, it’s your choice,” he said curtly. “But unless we can find
more thestrals you’re not going to be able —”
“Oh, more of them will come,” said Ginny confidently, who like Ron was
squinting in quite the wrong direction, apparently under the impression that
she was looking at the horses.
“What makes you think that?”

“Because in case you hadn’t noticed, you and Hermione are both covered
in blood,” she said coolly, “and we know Hagrid lures thestrals with raw
meat, so that’s probably why these two turned up in the first place . . .”
Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and looked down to see
the closest thestral licking his sleeve, which was damp with Grawp’s blood.
“Okay, then,” he said, a bright idea occurring. “Ron and I will take these
two and go ahead, and Hermione can stay here with you three and she’ll
attract more thestrals —”

“I’m not staying behind!” said Hermione furiously.
“There’s no need,” said Luna, smiling. “Look, here come more now. . . .
You two must really smell . . .”
Harry turned. No fewer than six or seven thestrals were picking their way
through the trees now, their great leathery wings folded tight to their bodies,
their eyes gleaming through the darkness. He had no excuse now. . . .
“All right,” he said angrily, “pick one and get on, then.”


CHAPTER  THIRTY-FOUR

THE DEPARTMENT OF MYSTERIES

arry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the nearest thestral,
placed a foot on a stump nearby and scrambled clumsily onto the
horse’s silken back. It did not object, but twisted its head around, fangs
bared, and attempted to continue its eager licking of his robes.
He found there was a way of lodging his knees behind the wing joints
that made him feel more secure and looked around at the others. Neville
had heaved himself over the back of the next thestral and was now
attempting to swing one short leg over the creature’s back. Luna was
already in place, sitting sidesaddle and adjusting her robes as though she did
this every day. Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, however, were still standing
motionless on the spot, openmouthed and staring.
“What?” he said.

“How’re we supposed to get on?” said Ron faintly. “When we can’t see
the things?”

“Oh it’s easy,” said Luna, sliding obligingly from her thestral and
marching over to him, Hermione, and Ginny. “Come here . . .”
She pulled them over to the other thestrals standing around and one by
one managed to help them onto the backs of their mounts. All three looked
extremely nervous as she wound their hands into the horses’ manes and told
them to grip tightly before getting back onto her own steed.
“This is mad,” Ron said faintly, moving his free hand gingerly up and
down his horse’s neck. “Mad . . . if I could just see it —”
“You’d better ho

They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten beneath their
robes.
“Okay . . .”

He looked down at the back of his thestral’s glossy black head and
swallowed. “Ministry of Magic, visitors’ entrance, London, then,” he said
uncertainly. “Er . . . if you know . . . where to go . . .”
For a moment his thestral did nothing at all. Then, with a sweeping
movement that nearly unseated him, the wings on either side extended, the
horse crouched slowly and then rocketed upward so fast and so steeply that
Harry had to clench his arms and legs tightly around the horse to avoid
sliding backward over its bony rump. He closed his eyes and put his face
down into the horse’s silky mane as they burst through the topmost
branches of the trees and soared out into a bloodred sunset.

Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast: The thestral streaked over
the castle, its wide wings hardly beating. The cooling air was slapping
Harry’s face; eyes screwed up against the rushing wind, he looked around
and saw his five fellows soaring along behind him, each of them bent as
low as possible into the neck of their thestral to protect themselves from its
slipstream.

They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had passed Hogsmeade.
Harry could see mountains and gullies below them. In the falling darkness
Harry saw small collections of lights as they passed over more villages,
then a winding road on which a single car was beetling its way home
through the hills. . . .

“This is bizarre!” Harry heard Ron yell from somewhere behind him, and
he imagined how it must feel to be speeding along at this height with no
visible means of support. . . .

Twilight fell: The sky turned to a light, dusky purple littered with tiny
silver stars, and soon it was only the lights of Muggle towns that gave them
any clue of how far from the ground they were or how very fast they were
traveling. Harry’s arms were wrapped tightly around his horse’s neck as he
willed it to go even faster. How much time had elapsed since he had seen
Sirius lying on the Department of Mysteries floor? How much longer would
he be able to resist Voldemort? All Harry knew for sure was that Sirius had
neither done as Voldemort wanted, nor died, for he was convinced that
either outcome would cause him to feel Voldemort’s jubilation or fury
course through his own body, making his scar sear as painfully as it had on
the night Mr. Weasley was attacked. . . .

On they flew through the gathering darkness; Harry’s face felt stiff and
cold, his legs numb from gripping the thestral’s sides so tightly, but he did
not dare shift positions lest he slip. . . . He was deaf from the thundering in
his ears and his mouth was dry and frozen from the rush of cold night air.
He had lost all sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in the beast
below him, still streaking purposefully through the night, barely flapping its
wings as it sped ever onward. . . .
If they were too late . . .

He’s still alive, he’s still fighting, I can feel it. . . .
If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack . . .
I’d know. . . .

Harry’s stomach gave a jolt. The thestral’s head was suddenly pointing
toward the ground and he had actually slid forward a few inches along its
neck. They were descending at last.  .  .  . He heard one of the girls shriek
behind him and twisted around dangerously but could see no sign of a
falling body. . . . Presumably they had received a shock from the change of
position, just as he had. . . .

And now bright orange lights were growing larger and rounder on all
sides. They could see the tops of buildings, streams of headlights like
luminous insect eyes, squares of pale yellow that were windows. Quite
suddenly, it seemed, they were hurtling toward the pavement. Harry gripped
the thestral with every last ounce of his strength, braced for a sudden
impact, but the horse touched the dark ground as lightly as a shadow and
Harry slid from his back, looking around at the street where the overflowing
dumpster still stood a short way from the vandalized telephone box, both
drained of color in the flat orange glare of the streetlights.
Ron landed a short way away and toppled immediately off his thestral
onto the pavement.

“Never again,” he said, struggling to his feet. He made as though to stride
away from his thestral, but, unable to see it, collided with its hindquarters
and almost fell over again. “Never, ever again . . . that was the worst —”
Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of him. Both slid off
their mounts a little more gracefully than Ron, though with similar
expressions of relief at being back on firm ground. Neville jumped down,
shaking, but Luna dismounted smoothly.

“Where do we go from here, then?” she asked Harry in a politely
interested voice, as though this was all a rather interesting day-trip.
“Over here,” he said. He gave his thestral a quick, grateful pat, then led
the way quickly to the battered telephone box and opened the door. “Come
on!” he urged the others as they hesitated.

Ron and Ginny marched in obediently; Hermione, Neville, and Luna
squashed themselves in after them; Harry took one glance back at the
thestrals, now foraging for scraps of rotten food inside the dumpster, then
forced himself into the box after Luna.

“Whoever’s nearest the receiver, dial six two four four two!” he said.
Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the dial. As it whirred back
into place the cool female voice sounded inside the box, “Welcome to the
Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business.”
“Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger,” Harry said very
quickly, “Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood . . . We’re
here to save someone, unless your Ministry can do it first!”
“Thank you,” said the cool female voice. “Visitors, please take the
badges and attach them to the front of your robes.”

Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where returned coins
usually appeared. Hermione scooped them up and handed them mutely to
Harry over Ginny’s head; he glanced at the topmost one.

HARRY POTTER
RESCUE MISSION
“Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and
present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is located at
the far end of the Atrium.”
“Fine!” Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another throb. “Now can we
move?”

The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the pavement rose up past
the glass windows of the telephone box. The scavenging thestrals were
sliding out of sight, blackness closed over their heads, and with a dull
grinding noise they sank down into the depths of the Ministry of Magic.
A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, widening, rose up their
bodies. Harry bent his knees and held his wand as ready as he could in such
cramped conditions, peering through the glass to see whether anybody was
waiting for them in the Atrium, but it seemed to be completely empty. The
light was dimmer than it had been by day. There were no fires burning
under the mantelpieces set into the walls, but he saw as the lift slid
smoothly to a halt that golden symbols continued to twist sinuously in the
dark blue ceiling.

“The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant evening,” said the
woman’s voice.
The door of the telephone box burst open; Harry toppled out of it,
followed by Neville and Luna. The only sound in the Atrium was the steady
rush of water from the golden fountain, where jets from the wands of the
witch and wizard, the point of the centaur’s arrow, the tip of the goblin’s
hat, and the house-elf’s ears continued to gush into the surrounding pool.
“Come on,” said Harry quietly and the six of them sprinted off down the
hall, Harry in the lead, past the fountain, toward the desk where the security
man who had weighed Harry’s wand had sat and which was now deserted.

Harry felt sure that there ought to be a security person there, sure that
their absence was an ominous sign, and his feeling of foreboding increased
as they passed through the golden gates to the lifts. He pressed the nearest
down button and a lift clattered into sight almost immediately, the golden
grilles slid apart with a great, echoing clanking, and they dashed inside.
Harry stabbed the number nine button, the grilles closed with a bang, and
the lift began to descend, jangling and rattling. Harry had not realized how
noisy the lifts were on the day that he had come with Mr. Weasley — he
was sure that the din would raise every security person within the building,
yet when the lift halted, the cool female voice said, “Department of
Mysteries,” and the grilles slid open again, they stepped out into the
corridor where nothing was moving but the nearest torches, flickering in the
rush of air from the lift.

Harry turned toward the plain black door. After months and months of
dreaming about it, he was here at last. . . .
“Let’s go,” he whispered, and he led the way down the corridor, Luna
right behind him, gazing around with her mouth slightly open.
“Okay, listen,” said Harry, stopping again within six feet of the door.
“Maybe . . . maybe a couple of people should stay here as a — as a lookout,
and —”

“And how’re we going to let you know something’s coming?” asked
Ginny, her eyebrows raised. “You could be miles away.”
“We’re coming with you, Harry,” said Neville.

“Let’s get on with it,” said Ron firmly.
Harry still did not want to take them all with him, but it seemed he had
no choice. He turned to face the door and walked forward. Just as it had in
his dream, it swung open and he marched forward, leading the others over
the threshold.

They were standing in a large, circular room. Everything in here was
black including the floor and ceiling — identical, unmarked, handle-less
black doors were set at intervals all around the black walls, interspersed
with branches of candles whose flames burned blue, their cool, shimmering
light reflected in the shining marble floor so that it looked as though there
was dark water underfoot.

“Someone shut the door,” Harry muttered.
He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had obeyed it. Without
the long chink of light from the torch-lit corridor behind them, the place
became so dark that for a moment the only things they could see were the
bunches of shivering blue flames on the walls and their ghostly reflections
in the floor below.

In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully across this room to
the door immediately opposite the entrance and walked on. But there were
around a dozen doors here. Just as he was gazing ahead at the doors
opposite him, trying to decide which was the right one, there was a great
rumbling noise and the candles began to move sideways. The circular wall
was rotating.

Hermione grabbed Harry’s arm as though frightened the floor might
move too, but it did not. For a few seconds the blue flames around them
were blurred to resemble neon lines as the wall sped around and then, quite
as suddenly as it had started, the rumbling stopped and everything became
stationary once again.

Harry’s eyes had blue streaks burned into them; it was all he could see.
“What was that about?” whispered Ron fearfully.
“I think it was to stop us knowing which door we came in from,” said
Ginny in a hushed voice.

Harry realized at once that she was right: He could no sooner have picked
the exit from the other doors than located an ant upon the jet-black floor.
Meanwhile, the door through which they needed to proceed could be any of
the dozen surrounding them.

“How’re we going to get back out?” said Neville uncomfortably.
“Well, that doesn’t matter now,” said Harry forcefully, blinking to try and
erase the blue lines from his vision, and clutching his wand tighter than
ever. “We won’t need to get out till we’ve found Sirius —”
“Don’t go calling for him, though!” Hermione said urgently, but Harry
had never needed her advice less; his instinct was to keep as quiet as
possible for the time being.

“Where do we go, then, Harry?” Ron asked.
“I don’t —” Harry began. He swallowed. “In the dreams I went through
the door at the end of the corridor from the lifts into a dark room — that’s
this one — and then I went through another door into a room that kind
of . . . glitters. We should try a few doors,” he said hastily. “I’ll know the
right way when I see it. C’mon.”

He marched straight at the door now facing him, the others following
close behind him, set his left hand against its cool, shining surface, raised
his wand, ready to strike the moment it opened, and pushed. It swung open
easily.

After the darkness of the first room, the lamps hanging low on golden
chains from this ceiling gave the impression that this long rectangular room
was much brighter, though there were no glittering, shimmering lights such
as Harry had seen in his dreams. The place was quite empty except for a
few desks and, in the very middle of the room, an enormous glass tank of
deep-green water, big enough for all of them to swim in, which contained a
number of pearly white objects that were drifting around lazily in the liquid.
“What’re those things?” whispered Ron.

“Dunno,” said Harry.
“Are they fish?” breathed Ginny.
“Aquavirius maggots!” said Luna excitedly. “Dad said the Ministry were
breeding —”

“No,” said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved forward to look
through the side of the tank. “They’re brains.”
“Brains?”

“Yes . . . I wonder what they’re doing with them?”
Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there could be no mistake now
that he saw them at close quarters. Glimmering eerily they drifted in and
out of sight in the depths of the green water, looking something like slimy
cauliflowers.

“Let’s get out of here,” said Harry. “This isn’t right, we need to try
another door —”
“There are doors here too,” said Ron, pointing around the walls. Harry’s
heart sank; how big was this place?
“In my dream I went through that dark room into the second one,” he
said. “I think we should go back and try from there.”
So they hurried back into the dark, circular room; the ghostly shapes of
the brains were now swimming before Harry’s eyes instead of the blue
candle flames.

“Wait!” said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close the door of the
brain room behind them. “Flagrate!”
She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery X appeared on the door. No
sooner had the door clicked shut behind them than there was a great
rumbling, and once again the wall began to revolve very fast, but now there
was a great red-gold blur in amongst the faint blue, and when all became
still again, the fiery cross still burned, showing the door they had already
tried.

“Good thinking,” said Harry. “Okay, let’s try this one —”
Again he strode directly at the door facing him and pushed it open, his
wand still raised, the others at his heels.

This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and rectangular, and the
center of it was sunken, forming a great stone pit some twenty feet below
them. They were standing on the topmost tier of what seemed to be stone
benches running all around the room and descending in steep steps like an
amphitheater, or the courtroom in which Harry had been tried by the
Wizengamot. Instead of a chained chair, however, there was a raised stone
dais in the center of the lowered floor, and upon this dais stood a stone
archway that looked so ancient, cracked, and crumbling that Harry was
amazed the thing was still standing. Unsupported by any surrounding wall,
the archway was hung with a tattered black curtain or veil which, despite
the complete stillness of the cold surrounding air, was fluttering very
slightly as though it had just been touched.

“Who’s there?” said Harry, jumping down onto the bench below. There
was no answering voice, but the veil continued to flutter and sway.
“Careful!” whispered Hermione.

Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until he reached the stone
bottom of the sunken pit. His footsteps echoed loudly as he walked slowly
toward the dais. The pointed archway looked much taller from where he
stood now than when he had been looking down on it from above. Still the
veil swayed gently, as though somebody had just passed through it.
“Sirius?” Harry spoke again, but much more quietly now that he was
nearer.

He had the strangest feeling that there was someone standing right behind
the veil on the other side of the archway. Gripping his wand very tightly, he
edged around the dais, but there was nobody there. All that could be seen
was the other side of the tattered black veil.
“Let’s go,” called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. “This isn’t
right, Harry, come on, let’s go . . .”

She sounded scared, much more scared than she had in the room where
the brains swam, yet Harry thought the archway had a kind of beauty about
it, old though it was. The gently rippling veil intrigued him; he felt a very
strong inclination to climb up on the dais and walk through it.
“Harry, let’s go, okay?” said Hermione more forcefully.
“Okay,” he said, but he did not move. He had just heard something.
There were faint whispering, murmuring noises coming from the other side
of the veil.

“What are you saying?” he said very loudly, so that the words echoed all
around the surrounding stone benches.
“Nobody’s talking, Harry!” said Hermione, now moving over to him.
“Someone’s whispering behind there,” he said, moving out of her reach
and continuing to frown at the veil. “Is that you, Ron?”
“I’m here, mate,” said Ron, appearing around the side of the archway.
“Can’t anyone else hear it?” Harry demanded, for the whispering and
murmuring was becoming louder; without really meaning to put it there, he
found his foot was on the dais.

“I can hear them too,” breathed Luna, joining them around the side of the
archway and gazing at the swaying veil. “There are people in there!”
“What do you mean, ‘in there’?” demanded Hermione, jumping down
from the bottom step and sounding much angrier than the occasion
warranted. “There isn’t any ‘in there,’ it’s just an archway, there’s no room
for anybody to be there — Harry, stop it, come away —”
She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he resisted.
“Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius!” she said in a high-pitched,
strained voice.

“Sirius,” Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at the continuously
swaying veil. “Yeah . . .”
And then something slid back into place in his brain: Sirius, captured,
bound, and tortured, and he was staring at this archway. . . .
He took several paces back from the dais and wrenched his eyes from the
veil.
“Let’s go,” he said.
“That’s what I’ve been trying to — well, come on, then!” said Hermione,
and she led the way back around the dais. On the other side, Ginny and
Neville were staring, apparently entranced, at the veil too. Without
speaking, Hermione took hold of Ginny’s arm, Ron Neville’s, and they
marched them firmly back to the lowest stone bench and clambered all the
way back up to the door.

“What d’you reckon that arch was?” Harry asked Hermione as they
regained the dark circular room.
“I don’t know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous,” she said firmly,
again inscribing a fiery cross upon the door.
Once more the wall spun and became still again. Harry approached a
door at random and pushed. It did not move.
“What’s wrong?” said Hermione.
“It’s . . . locked . . .” said Harry, throwing his weight at the door, but it
did not budge.

“This is it, then, isn’t it?” said Ron excitedly, joining Harry in the attempt
to force the door open. “Bound to be!”
“Get out of the way!” said Hermione sharply. She pointed her wand at
the place where a lock would have been on an ordinary door and said,
“Alohomora!”

Nothing happened.
“Sirius’s knife!” said Harry, and he pulled it out from inside his robes and
slid it into the crack between the door and the wall. The others all watched
eagerly as he ran it from top to bottom, withdrew it, and then flung his
shoulder again at the door. It remained as firmly shut as ever. What was
more, when Harry looked down at the knife, he saw that the blade had
melted.
“Right, we’re leaving that room,” said Hermione decisively.
“But what if that’s the one?” said Ron, staring at it with a mixture of
apprehension and longing.

“It can’t be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,” said
Hermione, marking the door with another fiery cross as Harry replaced the
now-useless handle of Sirius’s knife in his pocket.
“You know what could be in there?” said Luna eagerly, as the wall
started to spin yet again.

“Something blibbering, no doubt,” said Hermione under her breath, and
Neville gave a nervous little laugh.
The wall slid back to a halt and Harry, with a feeling of increasing
desperation, pushed the next door open.
“This is it!”

He knew it at once by the beautiful, dancing, diamond-sparkling light. As
Harry’s eyes became more accustomed to the brilliant glare he saw clocks
gleaming from every surface, large and small, grandfather and carriage,
hanging in spaces between the bookcases or standing on desks ranging the
length of the room, so that a busy, relentless ticking filled the place like
thousands of minuscule, marching footsteps. The source of the dancing,
diamond-bright light was a towering crystal bell jar that stood at the far end
of the room.
“This way!”

Harry’s heart was pumping frantically now that he knew they were on the
right track. He led the way forward down the narrow space between the
lines of the desks, heading, as he had done in his dream, for the source of
the light, the crystal bell jar quite as tall as he was that stood on a desk and
appeared to be full of a billowing, glittering wind.
“Oh look!” said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing at the very heart of
the bell jar.

Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a tiny, jewel-bright egg.
As it rose in the jar it cracked open and a hummingbird emerged, which was
carried to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draft, its feathers
became bedraggled and damp again, and by the time it had been borne back
to the bottom of the jar it had been enclosed once more in its egg.
“Keep going!” said Harry sharply, because Ginny showed signs of
wanting to stop and watch the egg’s progress back into a bird.
“You dawdled enough by that old arch!” she said crossly, but followed
him past the bell jar to the only door behind it.

“This is it,” Harry said again, and his heart was now pumping so hard
and fast he felt it must interfere with his speech. “It’s through here —”
He glanced around at them all. They had their wands out and looked
suddenly serious and anxious. He looked back at the door and pushed. It
swung open.

They were there, they had found the place: high as a church and full of
nothing but towering shelves covered in small, dusty, glass orbs. They
glimmered dully in the light issuing from more candle brackets set at
intervals along the shelves. Like those in the circular room behind them,
their flames were burning blue. The room was very cold.
Harry edged forward and peered down one of the shadowy aisles
between two rows of shelves. He could not hear anything nor see the
slightest sign of movement.

“You said it was row ninety-seven,” whispered Hermione.
“Yeah,” breathed Harry, looking up at the end of the closest row. Beneath
the branch of blue-glowing candles protruding from it glimmered the silver
figure 53.

“We need to go right, I think,” whispered Hermione, squinting to the next
row. “Yes . . . that’s fifty-four. . . .”
“Keep your wands out,” Harry said softly.

They crept forward, staring behind them as they went on down the long
alleys of shelves, the farther ends of which were in near total darkness.
Tiny, yellowing labels had been stuck beneath each glass orb on the shelf.
Some of them had a weird, liquid glow; others were as dull and dark within
as blown lightbulbs.
They passed row eighty-four . . . eighty-five . . . Harry was listening hard
for the slightest sound of movement, but Sirius might be gagged now, or
else unconscious . . . or, said an unbidden voice inside his head, he might
already be dead. . . .

I’d have felt it, he told himself, his heart now hammering against his
Adam’s apple. I’d already know. . . .
“Ninety-seven!” whispered Hermione.
They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing down the alley
beside it. There was nobody there.
“He’s right down at the end,” said Harry, whose mouth had become
slightly dry. “You can’t see properly from here . . .”
And he led them forward, between the towering rows of glass balls, some
of which glowed softly as they passed. . . .

“He should be near here,” whispered Harry, convinced that every step
was going to bring the ragged form of Sirius into view upon the darkened
floor. “Anywhere here . . . really close . . .”
“Harry?” said Hermione tentatively, but he did not want to respond. His
mouth was very dry now.

“Somewhere about . . . here . . .” he said.
They had reached the end of the row and emerged into more dim
candlelight. There was nobody there at all. All was echoing, dusty silence.
“He might be . . .” Harry whispered hoarsely, peering down the alley next
door. “Or maybe . . .” He hurried to look down the one beyond that.
“Harry?” said Hermione again.
“What?” he snarled.

“I . . . I don’t think Sirius is here.”
Nobody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of them. He felt sick.
He did not understand why Sirius was not here. He had to be here. This was
where he, Harry, had seen him. . . .

He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring down them. Empty
aisle after empty aisle flickered past. He ran the other way, back past his
staring companions. There was no sign of Sirius anywhere, nor any hint of a
struggle.

“Harry?” Ron called.
“What?”
He did not want to hear what Ron had to say, did not want to hear Ron
tell him he had been stupid, or suggest that they ought to go back to
Hogwarts. But the heat was rising in his face and he felt as though he would
like to skulk down here in the darkness for a long while before facing the
brightness of the Atrium above and the others’ accusing stares. . . .
“Have you seen this?” said Ron.

“What?” said Harry, but eagerly this time — it had to be a sign that Sirius
had been there, a clue — he strode back to where they were all standing, a
little way down row ninety-seven, but found nothing except Ron staring at
one of the dusty glass spheres on the shelves.
“What?” Harry repeated glumly.

“It’s — it’s got your name on,” said Ron.
Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of the small glass
spheres that glowed with a dull inner light, though it was very dusty and
appeared not to have been touched for many years.
“My name?” said Harry blankly.

He stepped forward. Not as tall as Ron, he had to crane his neck to read
the yellowish label affixed to the shelf right beneath the dusty glass ball. In
spidery writing was written a date of some sixteen years previously, and
below that:

S. P. T. to A. P. W. B. D.
Dark Lord
and (?) Harry Potter
Harry stared at it.
“What is it?” Ron asked, sounding unnerved. “What’s your name doing
down here?”
He glanced along at the other labels on that stretch of shelf.
“I’m not here,” he said, sounding perplexed. “None of the rest of us are
here . . .”

“Harry, I don’t think you should touch it,” said Hermione sharply, as he
stretched out his hand.
“Why not?” he said. “It’s something to do with me, isn’t it?”
“Don’t, Harry,” said Neville suddenly. Harry looked around at him.
Neville’s round face was shining slightly with sweat. He looked as though
he could not take much more suspense.
“It’s got my name on,” said Harry.

And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers around the dusty ball’s
surface. He had expected it to feel cold, but it did not. On the contrary, it
felt as though it had been lying in the sun for hours, as though the glow of
light within was warming it. Expecting, even hoping, that something
dramatic was going to happen, something exciting that might make their
long and dangerous journey worthwhile after all, he lifted the glass ball
down from its shelf and stared at it.

Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in closer around Harry,
gazing at the orb as he brushed it free of the clogging dust.
And then, from right behind them, a drawling voice said, “Very good,
Potter. Now turn around, nice and slowly, and give that to me.”



